SUID : OCTTH0AIH8N4
Media Release Survey of Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Markets Number 2016-21 Date 1 September 2016 In April 2016, the Reserve Bank conducted a survey of activity in foreign exchange and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives markets in Australia. This was part of a global survey of 52 countries, coordinated by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). Similar surveys have been conducted every three years since 1986. Globally, the Australian dollar remains the fifth most traded currency, although its share of turnover decreased by 1½ percentage points to around 7 per cent. The AUD/USD remains the fourth most traded currency pair, having also accounted for a slightly decreased share of global turnover. Activity in Australia's foreign exchange market has moderated since the previous survey in April 2013. Total turnover fell by around 25 per cent, compared with a 5 per cent decrease in global turnover over the same period. Nonetheless, the Australian foreign exchange market remains the eighth largest in the world. Activity in Australian OTC interest rate derivatives markets declined markedly over the three-year period, primarily reflecting a decline in turnover of forward rate agreements. The preliminary results of the global turnover survey and links to other participating jurisdictions' results are available from the BIS website. More detailed results for the Australian market are available on the 2016 BIS Triennial Survey Results – Australia page. The BIS will also publish global data on outstanding OTC derivatives as at June 2016 in November. The Reserve Bank will publish Australian data on outstanding OTC derivatives at that time. Enquiries Media and Communications Secretary's Department Reserve Bank of Australia SYDNEY Phone: +61 2 9551 9720 Fax: +61 2 9551 8033 E-mail: rbainfo@rba.gov.au Related Information 2016 BIS Triennial Survey Results – Australia 2016 BIS Triennial Survey Data – Australia 40KB Bank for International Settlements Date 1 September 2016 In April 2016, the Reserve Bank conducted a survey of activity in foreign exchange and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives markets in Australia. This was part of a global survey of 52 countries, coordinated by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). Similar surveys have been conducted every three years since 1986. Globally, the Australian dollar remains the fifth most traded currency, although its share of turnover decreased by 1½ percentage points to around 7 per cent. The AUD/USD remains the fourth most traded currency pair, having also accounted for a slightly decreased share of global turnover. Activity in Australia's foreign exchange market has moderated since the previous survey in April 2013. Total turnover fell by around 25 per cent, compared with a 5 per cent decrease in global turnover over the same period. Nonetheless, the Australian foreign exchange market remains the eighth largest in the world. Activity in Australian OTC interest rate derivatives markets declined markedly over the three-year period, primarily reflecting a decline in turnover of forward rate agreements. The preliminary results of the global turnover survey and links to other participating jurisdictions' results are available from the BIS website. More detailed results for the Australian market are available on the 2016 BIS Triennial Survey Results – Australia page. The BIS will also publish global data on outstanding OTC derivatives as at June 2016 in November. The Reserve Bank will publish Australian data on outstanding OTC derivatives at that time.   

