SUID : OCSYY3BE5TS5
New online resources – the Divorce and Separation Financial Checklist and the Asset Stocktake Calculator – developed by ASIC will help people navigate the financial aspects of divorce and separation. The resources are designed to help Australians manage their finances and make informed financial choices to avoid financial pitfalls during periods of significant change in their life. The divorce and separation financial checklist and asset stocktake calculator will provide guidance on: 'A relationship breakdown changes many aspects of a person's life, including their finances. This can leave people feeling stressed and overwhelmed and make it difficult to focus on financial decisions', said Mr Peter Kell, ASIC Deputy Chairman. 'The new resources can help sort out money issues and guide people through the financial uncertainty they may be facing when a relationship ends, by providing practical steps to separate finances,' added Mr Kell. Research undertaken by the Australian Institute of Family Studies has measured the impact of a relationship breakdown on people's finances, which especially affects women. Divorce had a substantial negative effect on the equivalised household incomes of women, with Australian women experiencing a fall in income of 21 per cent compared to their pre-divorce income.[1] Anne Hollonds, Psychologist and Director of the Institute of Family Studies said, 'When a relationship breaks down, we often don't know how to start sorting out our finances. The new checklist from ASIC's MoneySmart can help you work out what you need to do. You can also use it to support someone you know who's going through a divorce or separation.' ASIC's promotion of the resources is supported by a video featuring Anne Hollonds who explains how the divorce and separation financial checklist can help navigate finances when a relationship ends.  To see ASIC's financial resources on divorce and separation visit ASIC's MoneySmart website. ASIC is the Australian Government agency responsible for financial literacy, consistent with its strategic priority to promote confidence and trust in the financial system. Financial literacy is about having the knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours to make good financial decisions. It is part of ASIC’s strategic priority to promote consumer trust and confidence in the financial system. ASIC leads and coordinates the National Financial Literacy Strategy, which sets out a national framework for financial literacy work in Australia. The Strategy highlights the importance of providing people with tailored resources and tools, and of responding to the financial issues facing vulnerable sectors of the community. People experiencing high financial stress and crisis are identified as one of a number of priority audiences in the National Strategy. ASIC’s MoneySmart website provides impartial and trusted financial guidance and tools to support informed financial decision-making for all Australians.   making informed financial decisions at the time of a relationship breakdown; separating finances and getting money on track post separation and divorce and; commencing the property settlement process by providing a summary of assets and debts.   Background  

