SUID : OC13KYAIBMDC
The Federal Court in Perth has made interim orders against West Australian-based property developer Ms Desiree Veronica Macpherson and several Macro Realty Group companies of which she is a director and direct/indirect shareholder, following an application by ASIC on 21 July 2016. Initial ex parte orders were subject to a non-publication order by the Court. The companies subject to the orders are; ASIC obtained orders requiring Ms Macpherson to surrender to the Registry of the Court all passports held by her, any visa entitling her to enter, visit or reside in any country other than Australia and any airline ticket(s) for travel outside Australia until further order. The Court also made interim asset preservation orders against Ms Macpherson and the Macro Group as well as restraining her and the Macro Group from providing financial services advice, dealing in financial products, promoting financial products and otherwise carrying on a financial services business. Ms Macpherson can apply to vary the orders on a day's notice. ASIC made the application in order to protect the interests of shareholders, investors and creditors. The matters subject to these interim orders have been set down for a final hearing on 19 December 2016. ASIC's investigation is at an early stage, with a focus on investments in a land development in the Pilbara region of WA known as "The Newman Estate" that was subject to ASIC action and Federal Court permanent restraint orders in May this year. ASIC's investigation is ongoing. Earlier this year, the Federal Court in Perth permanently restrained the marketing and promotion of a proposed Pilbara property investment "The Newman Estate" by Macro Realty Developments Pty Ltd (Macro) and made declarations that Macro, Property Tuition Pty Ltd (21st Century Property) and Education Holdings Pty Ltd (21st Century Education) breached various provisions of the Corporations Act by promoting and marketing the investment proposal (refer: 16-092MR).   Macro Realty Developments Pty Ltd (ACN 159 678 930), Macro Realty Pty Ltd (ACN 143 381 060), Macro All State Investments and Securities Ltd (ACN 168 713 719) (Holder of Australian financial services licence number 468439),  Macro Realty Developments AFSL Pty Ltd (ACN 160 620 502), and Pilbara Property Developments Pty Ltd (ACN 162 445 187), (all five together, the Macro Group).   Background  

