SUID : OCPL93BE5TS0
FINDING SUCCESS IN FAILURE
WAYNE BYRES
Chairman
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Actuaries Institute Banking Conference
‘Banking on Capital’
30 August 2016
Sydney 

FINDING SUCCESS IN FAILURE
Thank you for the invitation to be part of today’s event. The Actuaries Institute’s increasing
engagement on banking-related matters is a welcome development and, as was the case
last year, I’m happy to support it. I am, however, going to risk the ire of the organisers by
straying somewhat from the theme of today’s event: rather than ‘banking on capital’, I’m
going to talk about why a sole reliance on capital is an unwise strategy.
As you all know, over the past couple of years, there has (quite justifiably) been a great
deal of attention given to the implications of the first recommendation of the Financial
System Inquiry (FSI): that APRA should set capital standards such that Australian authorised
deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) would have capital ratios that are seen to be
‘unquestionably strong’. Since that recommendation was published, much has been written
about what it means – and given that it will be a little while before APRA is in a position to
make a final determination on how we best meet this recommendation, no doubt much more
will be. Today, I’ll simply repeat the point I’ve made previously: that the steady
accumulation of capital remains a sensible course of action for most ADIs.
It’s always important to remember, though, that a stable and resilient banking system is not
just delivered by more capital. Capital adequacy is a relative concept – is capital adequate
relative to risk? When we judge a bank’s capital to be high or low, or something in the
middle, we are making a judgement that takes into account a range of issues that impact
on bank risk profiles: funding and liquidity, asset quality, governance, risk management and
risk culture, to name a few, all come into the equation in some way or another.
We also need to remember there are no guarantees. No level of capital (short of 100 per
cent equity funding) can provide creditors with an absolute guarantee against the possibility
of bank failure. To pick up today’s theme, we can’t always ‘bank on capital’: something can
always go wrong. To attempt to provide the community with an iron clad guarantee that
nothing can go awry would require severe limitation on the risk-taking ability of the banking
system, and prevent it from fulfilling the vital and productive roles that it plays in
intermediating between borrowers and lenders and facilitating the smooth functioning of
payments throughout the economy. Put simply, a zero failure regime is not desirable.
Inevitably, we need to find a balance.1 One implication of that is, even once we define and
achieve ‘unquestionably strong’, we won’t be downing tools. In a world of fractional reserve
banking, ‘unquestionably strong’ will never equate to ‘invincible’.
That in turn means we need to think about failure.2 And when I use the word ‘failure’, I’m
not just talking about a classic case of insolvency or bankruptcy, but using it more broadly
to capture situations in which the on-going viability of one or more financial institutions is
in serious jeopardy.
The failure of a bank is not like the failure of a bakery. The potential for contagion to other
financial firms, not to mention the widespread adversity it can impose on the broader
community, means the failure or near-failure of a bank is no run of the mill matter. So, if
we start with the proposition that failures are inevitable, then I’d suggest the regulatory
1     The need for balance is recognised in our enabling legislation, the Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority Act 1998, which requires APRA to balance financial safety and financial stability with considerations
of competition, efficiency, contestability and competitive neutrality. It is also recognised in the Statement of
Expectations that the Government sets for APRA, which acknowledges that it is not possible or efficient for APRA
to eliminate all risks, and that trade-offs in risk reductions are necessary. That expectation applies not just to
banks, but to all industries APRA regulates.
2     
It also means, by the way, that not every failure will necessarily imply a failure of the regulatory regime. 
system needs to be assessed against two benchmarks: are failures nevertheless sufficiently
rare, and do we have mechanisms to handle them adroitly when they occur? If the answer
to both these questions is yes, then community confidence and trust in the financial system
is likely to remain high.
With that in mind, we can think of two basic types of failure: orderly and disorderly.
To the extent we have failures, orderly failures are what we aspire to. Orderly failures will
typically have been anticipated, produce no loss to protected beneficiaries,3 and be
managed in such a way that the firm’s critical functions are maintained without disruption
while the situation is resolved. (Shareholders and other providers of capital of the nonviable firm may very well lose out along the way, but that is their lot in life.)
To the extent any failure can be regarded as a success, then an orderly exit from the industry
in this fashion is what we should strive for. For example, a firm that identifies it is
approaching non-viability or a strategic dead-end, and seeks to merge with a stronger and
more viable entity (sometimes with a nudge along the way from APRA) is a far from
uncommon event in the Australian financial system. To the extent such exits can be classed
as failures, or at least near failures, they are often so orderly that no one notices them.
Disorderly failures, on the other hand, are to be avoided. Disorderly failures will be those
which catch everyone by surprise, impose significant losses on those who the regulatory
framework seeks to protect, and/or involve significant disruption to the smooth operation
of the financial system, and economic activity more generally. HIH Insurance would be the
classic of this genre.
So what can we do to maximise the probability that failures will be orderly, rather than
disorderly? I’d suggest there’s a number of preconditions that the public sector needs to put
in place: 4           
? active supervision is at the heart of identifying the risk of failure early – it will be hard
to anticipate problems if there is no one looking for them in the first place;                                                      
? powers to intervene must exist – this is critical to being able to address small problems
before they become big ones;                    
? a willingness to intervene is also critical – powers are of no value if there is no capacity
or willingness to use them when needed5;                          
? planning and preparation – ideally, contingency plans will have been prepared and
tested in ‘peace time’ rather than thought up on the run in the midst of a crisis;
3     
Beneficiaries in this context refers to those creditors of a regulated entity that APRA is tasked with
protecting: ADI depositors, insurance policyholders and superannuation fund members. They can be thought of
as the primary beneficiaries of APRA’s activities.
4     
That is not to imply the responsibility rests solely with the public sector. APRA’s supervisory philosophy is
built on the premise that the primary responsibility for the prudent management of a regulated firm rests with
its board and management.
5     
Being willing to use powers can be easier said than done. In an impending failure, information on the state
of the firm will likely involve a great deal of uncertainty, and while early action is almost always the best course
of action, acting too early can bring legal risks with it. Key to having appropriate powers, therefore, is not just
the extent to which the powers exist in statute, but also having as much clarity as possible as to how and when
they can be used so that regulators can use the powers as intended with confidence. 
? a capacity to maintain critical functions – an orderly resolution of a failure may take
time, yet critical functions need to be maintained in the meantime; and                                                     
? there will ideally be a safety net or backstop to provide additional confidence at a time
of uncertainty – which will help avoid actions that are individually rational but
collectively damaging (the typical case being a bank run).
APRA, along with our colleagues amongst the Council of Financial Regulators, has spent a
great deal of time in recent years looking in a fairly hard-nosed way at how well Australia
stacks up against these preconditions. The conclusion was somewhat mixed: there are no
glaring deficiencies, but a number of areas for improvement.                                  
? The importance of active supervision, and a willingness to intervene where
appropriate, were some of the hard lessons that APRA took to heart following the HIH
episode. Justice Owen found APRA under-resourced to identify problems, and slow to
respond to them once found. These were fair conclusions, and APRA worked hard under
my predecessor to build both its capacity and conviction. Fifteen years on from HIH,
efforts to further improve our supervision – to identify risks early and respond promptly                                                         
– remain at the forefront of our latest strategic plan, and I expect they will always
feature prominently in APRA’s priorities.                         
? When it comes to powers to intervene, the FSI’s Final Report noted there are some
gaps and deficiencies in the Australian statutory framework for crisis management and
resolution when compared with international standards.6 This includes the need for such
things as broader investigation powers; strengthened directions powers; improved group
resolution powers; enhanced powers to deal with branches of foreign banks; and more
robust immunities to statutory and judicial managers. In his speech last week, the
Treasurer noted the Government’s intention to make improvements in this area, which
we see as a very valuable (and low cost) investment in the stability in the financial
system.  
? Crisis planning is critical. Last year at this event I spoke about our plans for recovery
and resolution planning. During the past year, I’m pleased to say larger ADIs have
submitted new plans based on updated guidance issued by APRA, and we are now
reviewing and benchmarking the plans in order to highlight areas of better practice that
will further increase the credibility of plans in subsequent iterations.7 On resolution
planning, more detailed work is also underway with specific firms to consider the
planning required to ensure that APRA is able to use our resolution powers when needed.
Our focus here is on the assessment of critical functions, intra-group dependencies such
as critical shared services, and the identification of potential barriers to resolvability.                                                         
? No matter how good the plan, however, stabilising and restructuring a financial firm
that is no longer viable in its current form is rarely going to be a quick and easy exercise.
So it is important that, while a resolution plan is being implemented, the firm’s critical
functions can be maintained so as to reduce potential losses and minimise the
disruption to the broader financial system. Key to doing this is that the firm has the
financial resources to allow it to continue to operate while its business is reorganised.
6     
The relevant benchmark is the Financial Stability Board’s Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes.
7     
APRA will also be working with large insurers on recovery planning in 2017, following the industry stress
tests this year. 
Searching for new capital when a business is distressed, and time is of the essence, is
ideally to be avoided. And we want to minimise the risk that the taxpayer has to come
to the rescue. With that in mind, the post-crisis regulatory framework has built
mechanisms that trigger automatic corrective action to help restore a firm’s capital
when it has been diminished. There is a lot of discussion and debate on the merits of
so-called bail-inable instruments and bail-in powers, including in response to the FSI’s
third recommendation that APRA implement a framework for recapitalisation capacity
sufficient to facilitate the orderly resolution of an Australian ADI and minimise taxpayer
support. But the idea of bail-in is not something completely new: certain
recapitalisation mechanisms already exist in the Australian framework. Examples
include:
o the use of the capital conservation buffer, which imposes increasing limitations on
a ADI’s ability to make discretionary distributions to capital providers and employees
as the ADI approaches its minimum regulatory requirements;8
o the trigger that exists in Additional Tier 1 instruments (often referred to as
‘hybrids’) that provide for the instrument to be written off, or converted to equity,
in the event that an ADI’s capital ratio falls below 5.125 per cent; and
o the point of non-viability trigger in both Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments,
which provides for the instruments to be written off or converted to equity in the
event that APRA considers that the ADI would become non-viable without such
action (or some other form of support).
These latter two recapitalisation mechanisms, in particular, are designed to provide
some ‘breathing space’ to allow for orderly resolution. They are not designed to deliver
resurrection, but more modestly to provide scope for an ADI’s services to customers to
continue while new owners and managers are being put in place. Strengthening this by
increasing loss absorption and recapitalisation capacity further, as recommended by the
8     
The capital conservation buffer is, for most ADIs, a minimum of 2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets (3.5 per
cent in the case of an ADI that APRA has deemed a domestic systemically important bank). The buffer may
be extended by up to an additional 2.5 per cent (ie to 5.0 per cent, or 6.0 per cent for DSIBs) through the
use of the countercyclical buffer. At present, the countercyclical buffer component is zero in Australia,
although ADIs with operations overseas may be required to hold additional buffer if authorities in foreign
jurisdictions have applied a non-zero buffer to exposures within their jurisdiction.
In cases where an ADI does not hold sufficient CET1 to meet its minimum prudential capital requirement (PCR)
plus its required conservation buffer (CB), the ADI is limited in the extent to which it may make discretionary
distributions - typically, dividends on ordinary shares, distributions on Additional Tier 1 instruments, and
discretionary payments to staff - in accordance with the following table (which shows the relevant ranges in
instances when the total buffer is 2.5 per cent, and when the buffer is increased to 3.5 per cent). As noted,
these ranges will increase whenever the countercyclical capital buffer is applicable.
Conservation buffer (CB) range     
Conservation buffer range, given
minimum CET1 requirement of:     
Proportion of
earnings that
must be
conserved
PCR = 4.5%
CB = 2.5%        
PCR = 4.5%
CB =3.5%
≤PCR+0.25*CB              ≤ 5.125%         ≤5.375%         100%
>PCR+0.25+CB to ≤PCR+0.5*CB   >5.125% to ≤5.75%  >5.375% to ≤6.25%      80%
>PCR+0.5*CB to ≤PCR+0.75*CB    >5.75% to ≤6.375%  >6.25% to ≤7.125%      60%
>PCR+0.75*CB to ≤PCR+CB      >6.375% to ≤7.0%   >7.125% to ≤8.0%      40%
>PCR+CB                >7.0%           >8.0%          0% 
FSI, remains a work in progress and likely to take some time to complete. We are, as I
have said elsewhere, hastening slowly in response to that recommendation given the
importance of getting the policy settings right.
However, the new mechanisms that have already been instituted within existing capital
instruments are a very important part of the new regulatory framework. Viewing these
capital instruments as simply higher-yielding substitutes for vanilla fixed-interest
investments, let alone deposits, is something to be counselled against, since from
APRA’s perspective holders of these instruments are providing the important first lines
of defence that we can call into action, in some instances even ahead of shareholders,
to aid an orderly resolution.               
? Finally, despite these new mechanisms, having a safety net or backstop to provide
additional confidence before and during a period of resolution is an important
component of any resolution framework. Australian depositors have long had the benefit
of the depositor preference provisions in the Banking Act 1959. In 2008, this was
supplemented by the Financial Claims Scheme (FCS) which seeks to provide certain
depositors with prompt access to their funds – up to $250,000 per account holder - in
the event an ADI fails.9
But to achieve a prompt payout of protected deposits to account holders – something
depositors must be confident of for the backstop to work as intended – requires that
ADIs be operationally ready, prior to any failure, to meet payment, reporting and
communication requirements for the FCS.10 Planning and investing to facilitate their
own demise is something that financial firms inevitably struggle to do, so APRA will be
reinforcing its expectations in relation to ADI’s FCS testing programs in the near future,
with a view to ensuring there is genuine readiness to activate the FCS if it is ever
needed.
Concluding remarks
Adequate capital is undoubtedly critical to the stability of any banking system. But to return
to today’s theme, we can’t solely ‘bank on capital’ to deliver safety and stability. If we
accept that failures, while hopefully still reasonably rare, are nevertheless inevitable, then
preparation to minimise their impact is an essential investment. ‘Successful failures’ might
seem a contradiction in terms, but they are far better than the alternative.
9     
The general insurance component of the FCS covers most claims up to $5000. Claims above $5000 are also
covered for eligible policyholders and certain third parties.
10    
For depositors to be confident in the backstop, they also need to be aware of it in the first place. APRA
has recently launched a new website – www.fcs.gov.au – to give the FCS greater prominence, and provide the
community with improved understanding about how the FCS works. 

