
 

 

 Draft regulatory  technical standards  on requirements to 
RTS 10:
ensure  co-location  and  fee  structures  are  fair  and  non-
discriminatory  

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

294 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. of [date]  

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council on markets in financial instruments with regard to regulatory 

technical standards on requirements to ensure fair and non-discriminatory 

co-location and fee structures  

 

(Text with EEA relevance)  

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,  

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1, and in particular Article 48(12)(d), 

Whereas:  

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

It  is  important  to  adopt  detailed  regulatory  technical  standards  to  clearly  identify 
conditions  when  co-location  and  fee  structures  used  by  trading  venues  may  be 
considered fair and non-discriminatory.  

Directive  2014/65/EU  extends  the  requirements  relating  to  co-location  and  fee 
structures  to  multilateral  trading  facilities  and  organised  trading  facilities  and  it  is 
therefore  important  to  ensure  that  those  venues  are  also  within  the  scope  of  this 
Regulation.  

In order to ensure a level playing field, it is necessary to impose common requirements 
to  all  types  of  co-location  services  and  to  apply  the  same  rules  to  trading  venues 
organising their own data centers and those using data centers owned or managed by 
third parties. 

Trading venues have the ability to determine their own commercial policy as regards 
co-location and determine which types of market participants they want to grant access 
to these services on the basis of objective, transparent and non-discriminatory criteria.  

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p.349 

EN 

295 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

Trading venues should not be forced to extend their co-location capacities beyond the 
limits  of  the  space,  power,  cooling  or  similar  facilities  available  and  should  have 
discretion to decide whether they expand their co-location space or not.  

Ensuring  fair  and  non-discriminatory  practice  in  relation  to  fee  structures  and  co-
location  requires  a  sufficient  degree  of  transparency  without  which  obligations  laid 
down in Directive 2014/65/EU could be easily circumvented.  

Objective  parameters  should  be  used  by  trading  venues  to  determine  rebates, 
incentives  and  disincentives  that  may  include  volumes  effectively  traded,  services 
effectively  used  and  the  provision  of  specific  services,  such  as  the  provision  of 
liquidity provided by an investment firm pursuing a market making strategy.  

The  implementation  of  any  fee  structure  that  contributes  to  disorderly  trading 
conditions through encouraging intensive trading and that leads to a potential stress of 
market  infrastructures  should  be  explicitly  prohibited.  However,  volume  discounts 
should still be allowed, since, as price differentiation schemes, they  are  based on the 
total  trading  volume,  the  total  number  of  trades  or  the  cumulated  trading  fees 
generated by one member whereby only the marginal trade executed subsequently to 
reaching the threshold is executed at a reduced price. 

The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date. 

(10)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(11)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:  

 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

296 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 1 

(Article 48(8) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Types of co-location services covered 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  provide  objective,  fair,  transparent  and  non-discriminatory  co-
location services as laid down in Article 2 in the following cases: 

(a)  data centers owned and managed by a trading venue; 

(b)  data  centers  owned  by  a  trading  venue  but  managed  by  a  third  party  selected  by  this 

venue;  

(c)  data centers owned and managed by a third party but where an outsourcing arrangement 
with  a  trading  venue  organises  that  venue’s  execution  infrastructure  as  well  as  the 
proximity access to it; 

(d)  proximity  hosting  services  owned  and  managed  by  third  parties  with  a  contractual 

arrangement with a trading venue. 

2.  Trading venues shall ensure that third party providers of co-location services are subject 
to  equivalent  obligations  in  terms  of  fair  and  non-discriminatory  provision  of  co-location 
services as trading venues.  

 

Article 2 

(Article 48(8) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Fair and non-discriminatory co-location services 

1.  Trading venues shall publish their policy regarding co-location services on their websites, 
including:  

(a)  a  list  of  co-location  services  that  they  offer  including  details  about  space,  power, 
cooling, cable length, access to data, market connectivity, technology, technical support, 
message types, telecommunications and any other related products and services;  

(b)  the price of each service as set out in Article 3(2);  

(c)  the conditions for accessing the service, including IT and operational arrangements;  

(d)  the different types of latency access available;  

(e)  the procedure to allocate co-location space;  

(f)  the requirements on third party providers of co-location services.  

EN 

297 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  Trading  venues  shall  provide  co-location  services  on  the  basis  of  objective,  transparent 
and non-discriminatory criteria to the different types of users of the venue within the limits of 
the space, power, cooling or similar facilities available.  

3.  Trading venues shall provide to all users which have subscribed to the same co-location 
services access to their network under equivalent conditions including space, power, cooling, 
cable length, access to data, market connectivity, technology, technical support and messaging 
types.  

4.  Trading  venues  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to  monitor  all  connections  and  latency 
measurements to ensure the non-discriminatory treatment of all users of co-location services 
with the same type of latency provided.  

5.  Users of co-location services shall be granted the possibility to only subscribe certain co-
location services, without being required to purchase bundled services.  

 

Article 3 

(Article 48(9) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Fair and non-discriminatory fee structures  

1.  Trading  venues  shall  publish  on  their  websites  in  one  comprehensive  and  publicly 
accessible  document  their  fee  structures,  including  execution  fees,  ancillary  fees,  rebates, 
incentives and disincentives.  

2.  Trading venues shall ensure that their fee structure is set with sufficient granularity such 
that the outcome is predictable and identifying at least the following concepts:  

(a)  the chargeable activities, identifying the activity that triggers each fee;  

(b)  the pricing policy for each chargeable activity, identifying clearly whether that pricing 

policy is based on a fixed or a variable fee;  

(c)  the pricing structure, including any types of rebates, incentives or disincentives.  

3.  Users  of  services  shall  be  granted  the  possibility  to  only  request  certain  chargeable 
activities, without being required to pay for bundled services.  

4.  Trading venues shall charge the same price and provide the same conditions to all users 
of the same type in a class of users of the services they provide in accordance with published 
and objective criteria. Trading venues may establish different fee structures only on the basis 
of non-discriminatory, measurable, objective and published parameters relating to: 

(a)  the total volume traded, the numbers of trades or cumulated trading fees; 

EN 

298 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(b)  the services provided by the venue; 

(c)  the provision of liquidity under a market making agreement as defined in Article 48 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU or as a market  maker  as defined by  Article 4(1)(7) of Directive 
2014/65/EU; 

(d)  the provision of packages of services;  

(e)  the scope or field of use demanded.  

Article 4 

(Article 48(8) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Prohibited fee structures  

Trading  venues  shall  not  offer  a  fee  structure  whereby  upon  a  member‘s,  participant's  or 
client’s trading exceeding a given threshold, all of its trades benefit from a lower fee for a set 
period,  including  trades  which  have  been  executed  previously  in  addition  to  the  trades 
executed subsequent to reaching the threshold. 

 

Article 5  

Entry into force  

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union.  

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

EN 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

299 

EN 

 
 

 

 
