

 

 

ITS  19:  Implementing  technical  standards  of  the  description  of 
the functioning of MTFs and OTFs 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

382 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of [Date]  

laying down implementing technical standards with regard to the content 

and format of the description of the functioning of MTFs and OTFs and the 

notification to ESMA according to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European 

Parliament and of the Council 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 

Having  regard to  Directive 2014/65/EU of 15 May 2014 of the European Parliament  and of 
the  Council  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1 and in particular the third subparagraph of Article 18(11) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

It  is  important  to  recognise  the  need  for  competent  authorities  to  receive  complete 
information  about  the  purpose,  structure  and  organisation  of  multilateral  trading 
facilities (MTFs) and organised trading facilities (OTFs) that they will be required to 
supervise in order to ensure the efficient and orderly functioning of financial markets. 

This  information  should  build  upon  the  information  an  investment  firm  or  market 
operator would be required to provide as part of the general authorisation requirements 
under  Directive  2014/65/EU.  It  should  focus  upon  the  specific  functionality  of  the 
trading  system  so  as  to  enable  competent  authorities  to  assess  whether  the  system 
satisfies  the  definition  of  an  MTF  or  OTF  and  to  assess  its  compliance  with  the 
particular,  venue-orientated  requirements  of  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council2. The requirement 
for  a  detailed  description  should  not  affect  the  duty  of  an  investment  firm  or  market 
operator  to  provide  other  information  to  its  competent  authority  as  required  under 
Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  or  the  rights  of  competent 
authorities to request other information as part of their on-going supervision of trading 
venues. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 173 
2 Regulation (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  15  May  2014  on  markets  in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 84). 

EN 

383 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

(10)

 

The 
information  should  ensure  a  uniform  application  of  collecting  detailed 
descriptions  of  the  functioning  of  the  MTF  or  OTF  under  Directive  2014/65/EU  and 
achieve an efficient processing of information for existing MTFs already operating in 
accordance  with  national  authorisation  at  the  point  the  requirement  of  submitting  a 
detailed description comes into force. 

Since SME growth markets are distinguished from other MTFs in that they are subject 
to  additional  rules,  it  is  necessary  that  SME  growth  markets  shall  provide  additional 
information. 

Since OTFs are distinguished from MTFs in that the trading process may involve the 
use of discretionary rules by the operator and because the operator of an OTF will owe 
client  facing  responsibilities  to  users  of  the  system,  OTFs  should  provide  additional 
information. 

To ensure the efficient processing of the information required it should be provided in 
electronic format.  

To  facilitate  the  publication  by  the  European  Securities  and  Markets  Authority 
(ESMA)  of  the  list  of  all  MTFs  and  OTFs  in  the  Union  with  information  on  the 
services  they  provide  and  the  unique  code  identifying  them,  a  standard  template  for 
that information should be used.  

The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/20143 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date.   

This  Regulation  is  based  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical  standards  submitted  by 
ESMA to the Commission. 

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council4. 

                                                 

3 Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council”  with  the  following  footnote: 
“Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the  Council of 15 May 2014 on  markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84).  
4    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

384 

EN 

 
 

 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Definitions 

For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: 

(1) 

‘relevant operator’ means: 

(a)  an investment firm operating a multilateral trading facility (MTF);  

(b)  an investment firm operating an organised trading facility (OTF); 

(c)  a market operator operating an MTF;  

(d)  a market operator operating an OTF; 

‘asset classes’ means the categories of financial instruments as set out in Section C of 

(2) 
Annex I to Directive 2014/65/EU. 

 

Article 2 

Information to be provided on MTFs and OTFs 

1.  A relevant operator shall provide its competent authority with the following information: 

(a)  the asset classes of financial instruments traded on the MTF or OTF; 

(b)  the rules and procedures for making financial instruments available for trading, together 
with details of the publication arrangements, used to make that information available to 
the public;  

(c)  the  rules  and  procedures  to  ensure  the  objective  and  non-discriminatory  access  to  the 
trading facilities together with details on the publication arrangements used to make that 
information available to the public; 

(d)  the measures and procedures to  ensure that  sufficient information  is  publicly available 
to users of the MTF or OTF to form an investment judgement, taking into account both 
the nature of the users and the classes of financial instruments traded; 

(e)  the systems, procedures and arrangements to ensure compliance with the conditions laid 

down in Articles 48 and 49 of Directive 2014/65/EU; 

(f)  a detailed description of any arrangements to facilitate the provision of liquidity to the 

system such as market making schemes; 

EN 

385 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(g)  the  arrangements  and  procedures  to  monitor  transactions  as  required  by  Article  31  of 

Directive 2014/65/EU; 

(h)  the  rules  and  procedures  for  suspension  and  removal  of  financial  instruments  from 

trading as required by Article 32 of Directive 2014/65/EU; 

(i) 

the arrangements to comply with pre-trade and post-trade transparency obligations that 
apply  to  the  financial  instruments  traded  and  the  trading  functionality  of  the  MTF  or 
OTF;  that  information  shall  be  accompanied  with  information  on  the  intention  to  use 
waivers  under  Articles  4  and  9  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  and  deferred 
publication under Articles 7 and 11 of that Regulation; 

(j) 

the  arrangements  for  the  efficient  settlement  of  the  transactions  effected  under  its 
systems  and  to  ensure  that  users  are  aware  of  their  respective  responsibilities  in  this 
regard; 

(k)  a list of the members or participants of the MTF or OTF which it operates. 

2.  A  relevant  operator  shall  provide  its  competent  authority  with  a  detailed  description  of 
the functioning of its trading system specifying: 

(a)  whether the system represents a voice, electronic or hybrid functionality; 

(b)  in  the  case  of  an  electronic  or  hybrid  trading  system,  the  nature  of  any  algorithm  or 

program used to determine the matching and execution of trading interests; 

(c)  in  the  case  of  a  voice  trading  system,  the  rules  and  protocols  used  to  determine  the 

matching and execution of trading interests; 

(d)  a description explaining how the trading system satisfies each element of the definition 

of an MTF or an OTF. 

3.  A relevant operator shall provide its competent authority with information on how and in 
what  instances  the  operation  of  the  MTF  or  OTF  will  give  rise  to  any  potential  conflicts 
between the interests of the MTF or OTF, its operator or its owners and the sound functioning 
of the MTF or OTF. The relevant operator shall specify the procedures and arrangements to 
comply with the requirements set out in Article 18(4) of Directive 2014/65/EU. 

4.  A relevant operator shall provide its competent authority with the following information 
on its outsourcing arrangements that relate to the management, operation or oversight of the 
MTF or OTF and, in particular: 

(a)  the organisational measures to identify the risks in relation to those outsourced activities 

and to monitor the outsourced activities;  

EN 

386 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  the  contractual  agreement  between  the  relevant  operator  and  the  entity  providing  the 
outsourced service in which the nature, scope, objectives, and service level agreements 
are outlined. 

5.  A relevant operator shall provide its competent authority with information on any links to 
or  participation  by  a  regulated  market,  MTF,  OTF  or  systematic  internaliser  owned  by  the 
same relevant operator. 

 

Article 3 

Additional information to be provided on MTFs 

1. 
In  addition  to  the  information  set  out  in  Article  2,  a  relevant  operator  shall  provide  its 
competent  authority  with  the  following  information  relating  to  the  requirements  set  out  in 
Article 19(3) of Directive 2014/65/EU: 

(a)  a description of the arrangements and the systems implemented to manage the risks to 
which it is exposed, to identify all significant  risks to  its  operation and to put  in place 
effective measures to mitigate those risks; 

(b)  a  description  of  the  arrangements  implemented  to  facilitate  the  efficient  and  timely 

finalisation of the transactions executed under its systems; 

(c)  having regard to the nature and extent of the transactions concluded on the market and 
the  range  and  degree  of  the  risks  to  which it  is  exposed,  a  description  of the  financial 
resources considered sufficient to facilitate its orderly functioning. 

 

Article 4  

Information to be provided on MTFs already in operation 

In  the  case  of  an  investment  firm  or  market  operator  authorised  to  operate  an  MTF  under 
Article  5  of  Directive  2004/39/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council5 which  is 
operating at the date of application of this Regulation, that firm or operator shall provide the 
information referred to under Articles 2 and 3 of this Regulation in the following cases:  

(a)  to correct, update or clarify information previously submitted by the relevant operator to 

its competent authority;  

                                                 

5 Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial 
instruments amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC and 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 93/22/EEC (OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1). 

EN 

387 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(b)  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  obligations  under  Directive  2014/65/EU  and 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 that did not apply to the MTF prior to the application of 
this Regulation.  

Article 5 

Additional information to be provided on MTFs for registration as an SME growth 

market 

In  the  case  of  a  relevant  operator  which  is  applying  for  registration  of  an  MTF  as  an  SME 
growth market, that operator shall ensure that the information provided under Articles 2 and 3 
clearly  identifies  which  functionalities  or  arrangements  are  applicable  to  the  SME  growth 
market.  

 

Article 6 

Additional information to be provided on OTFs 

In addition to Article 2, a relevant operator operating an OTF shall provide its competent 

1. 
authority with the following information: 

(a)  information on whether another investment firm is engaged to carry out market making 
on  its  OTF  on  an  independent  basis  in  accordance  with  Article  20(5)  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU; 

(b)  a  detailed  description  of  how  and  under  what  circumstances  it  executes  orders  on  the 
OTF on a discretionary basis in accordance with Article 20(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU; 

(c)  the rules, procedures and protocols which allow the operator to route the trading interest 

of a member or participant outside the facilities of the OTF; 

(d)  a description of the use of matched principal trading which complies with Article 20(7) 

of Directive 2014/65/EU; 

(e)  the  rules  and  procedures  to  ensure  compliance  with  Articles  24,  25,  27  and  28  of 
Directive  2014/65/EU  for  transactions  concluded  on  the  OTF  where  those  rules  are 
applicable to the relevant operator in relation to an OTF user. 

 

EN 

Article 7 

Asset class specific information 

388 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Where a relevant operator of an MTF or OTF applies different rules to different asset classes, 
it  shall  provide  the  information  required  by  this  Regulation  for  each  of  those  asset  classes 
separately. 

 

Article 8 

Material changes 

1.  A  relevant  operator  shall  provide  its  competent  authority  with  a  description  of  any 
material changes to the information previously submitted in accordance with this Regulation 
which  would  be  relevant  to  an  assessment  of  that  operator’s  compliance  with  Directive 
2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. 

2.  Where  a  relevant  operator  sends  new  information  to  its  competent  authority  to  correct, 
update or clarify information previously submitted in accordance with this Regulation, it does 
not need to include information which is of a purely minor or technical nature that would not 
be  relevant  to  an  assessment  of  their  compliance  with  Directive  2014/65/EU  or  Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014. 

3.  An  investment  firm  or  market  operator  authorised  to  operate  an  MTF  under  Directive 
2004/39/EC which is operating at the date of application of this Regulation shall, in addition 
to  paragraph  1  of  this  Article,  provide  its  competent  authority  with  a  description  of  any 
material changes to the information previously submitted to the competent authority in respect 
of that MTF under that Directive.  

 

Article 9 

Format for providing the detailed description 

1.  Where  the  relevant  operator  provides  the  competent  authority  with  the  detailed 
description of the functioning of the MTF or OTF it operates as set out under this Regulation, 
the  relevant  operator  shall  include  clear  references  in  its  submission  which  satisfy  the 
requirements of the template in Table 1 of the Annex. 

2. 
In providing the information required by this Regulation, a relevant operator shall include 
references  to  the  appropriate  provisions  of  the  rules  of  its  MTF  or  OTF,  agreements  or 
contracts with participants or relevant third parties and internal procedures and policies.  

3.  A  relevant  operator  shall  provide  the  information  required  by  this  Regulation  to  its 
competent authority in an electronic format. 

4.  When providing the information required by this Regulation, a relevant operator shall: 

(a)  give a unique reference number to each document it submits;  

EN 

389 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  ensure  that  the  information  it  submits  clearly  identifies  which  specific  requirement  of 
this Regulation it refers to and in which document that information is provided by using 
the unique reference number to identify the document; 

(c)  ensure  that  if  a  requirement  of  this  Regulation  does  not  apply  to  it,  that  fact  is  stated 

together with an explanation; 

(d)  submit that information in the format set out in Table 1 of the Annex. 

5.  Where the provision of the detailed description occurs in the context of an authorisation 
request, an entity requesting authorisation to provide more than one service at the same time 
shall submit one application clearly identifying the services to which the information provided 
applies. When the same document is to be considered as part of several authorisation requests, 
for the purpose of providing the information in the format in Table 1 of the Annex, the same 
reference number shall be used when submitting the same document for several applications. 

 

Article 10 

Notification to ESMA 

A  competent  authority  shall  notify  ESMA  of  the  authorisation  of  a  relevant  operator  as  an 
MTF or an OTF in electronic format and in the format in Table 2 of the Annex. 

 

Article 11 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

EN 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

390 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

391 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex: Formats 

Table 1 

Information by MTFs and OTFs 

Relevant Article 
number of this 

Regulation 

Document 
reference 
number 

Title of the 
document 

Relevant 

operator for 
which the 

application is 

submitted 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Notifying 
Competent 
Authority 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Table 2 

Information to be sent to ESMA 

Name of the 

relevant 
operator 

Name of the 
MTF/OTF 
operated 

MIC code 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

Chapter or 

section or page 
of the document 

where the 

information is 

provided or 

reasons why the 
information has 

not been 
provided 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Services 

provided (i.e. 
MTF and/or 

OTF) 

EN 

392 

EN 

 
 

 

 
