 

 

 

 Draft 
RTS 14:
disaggregation 

regulatory 

technical 

standards 

on  data 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

336 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/...  

of […]  

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the 

specification of the offering of pre-trade and post-trade data and the level of 

disaggregation 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,  

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/20121
 and 
in particular the third subparagraph of Article 12(2) thereof,  

Whereas:  

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

In order to reduce costs for market participants when purchasing data, Regulation (EU) 
No  600/2014  provides  for  pre-trade  and  post-trade  transparency  data  to  be  made 
available  to  the  public  in  an  “unbundled”  fashion  for  separate  data  items.  It  is 
necessary  to  specify  the  level  of  disaggregation  by  which  venues  should  offer  data. 
Taking  into  account  the  evidence  of  demand  for  such  data  from  other  stakeholders, 
market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue should disaggregate 
data  by  asset  class,  by  country  of  issue,  by  the  currency  in  which  an  instrument  is 
traded,  and  according  to  whether  data  comes  from  scheduled  daily  auctions  or  from 
continuous trading.  

To ensure that pre- and post-trade data offered appropriately matches the demand from 
market participants, market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue 
should offer any combination of the disaggregation criteria set  out  in this Regulation 
on a reasonable commercial basis. 

For some financial instruments such as for derivatives it may not always be possible to 
determine  unambiguously  the  particular  asset  class  to  which  that  instrument  belongs 
since  the  determination  of  an  asset  class  depends  on  which  characteristics  of  the 
instruments  are  considered  to  be  the  decisive  ones.  Similarly,  it  may  not  always  be 
possible  to  unambiguously  determine  which  other  criteria  a  type  of  data  meets.  To 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84.  
 

EN 

337 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

 

ensure that market participants purchasing data from a particular trading venue receive 
a  consistent  data  set,  it  is  necessary  to  require  market  operators  or  investment  firms 
operating a trading venue to determine in those cases where the disaggregation criteria 
application cannot be applied in an unambiguous manner which criteria an instrument 
or type of data meets.  

The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date. 

This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:  

 

Article 1  

Offering of pre-trade and post-trade transparency data  

1.  A  market  operator  or  investment  firm  operating  a  trading  venue  shall  make  the 
information  published  in  accordance  with  Articles  3,  4  and  6  to  11  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  available  to  the  public  by  offering  pre-trade  and  post-trade  data  disaggregated,  if 
there is a request for such disaggregation, according to the following criteria:   

(a)  the nature of the asset class: 

(i)  shares; 

(ii)  depositary  receipts,  ETFs,  certificates  and  other  similar  financial  instruments 

referred to in Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014;  

                                                 

2    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

338 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(iii) bonds and structured finance products;  

(iv) emission allowances;  

(v)  derivatives:  

1.  equity derivatives;  

2.  interest rate derivatives;  

3.  credit derivatives;  

4.  foreign exchange derivatives;  

5.  commodity derivatives; 

6.  other derivatives; 

(b)  the country of issue for shares and sovereign debt;  

(c)  the currency in which the instrument is traded;  

(d)  scheduled daily auctions as opposed to continuous trading.  

2.  The market operator or investment firm operating a trading venue shall determine which 
criteria an instrument or type of data meets where this is unclear. 

3.  The market operator or investment firm operating a trading venue shall apply the criteria 
referred to in paragraph in any combination, if requested. 

In addition to offering the data according to paragraph 1, a market operator or investment 

4. 
firm operating a trading venue may also offer bundles of data. 

 

Article 2  

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union.  

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

EN 

339 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

340 

EN 

 
 

 
