 

 

 

CHAPTER 4: DATA PUBLICATION AND ACCESS  

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  authorisation, 
RTS 13:
organisational  requirements  and  the  publication  of  transactions 
for data reporting services providers 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

313 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the authorisation, 

organisational requirements and the publication of transactions for data 

reporting services providers 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 

Having  regard to  Directive 2014/65/EU of 15 May 2014 of the European Parliament  and of 
the  Council  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1 , and in particular Articles 61(4), 64(6), 64(8), 65(6), 65(8), and 66(5) 
thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

In accordance with Directive 2014/65/EU data reporting services providers cover three 
different  types  of  entities:  approved  reporting  mechanisms  (ARMs),  approved 
publication  arrangements  (APAs)  and  consolidated  tape  providers  (CTPs).  Although 
those  types  of  entities  are  engaged  in  different  activities,  Directive  2014/65/EU 
provides for a similar authorisation process for all of those entities. 

An  applicant  seeking  authorisation  as  a  data  reporting  services  provider  should 
provide  in  its  application  for  authorisation  a  programme  of  operations  and  an 
organisational  chart.  The  organisational  chart  should  identify  who  is  responsible  for 
the  different  activities  to  enable  the  competent  authority  to  assess  whether  the  data 
reporting  services  provider  has  sufficient  human  resources  and  oversight  over  its 
business.  The  organisational  chart  should  not  only  cover  the  scope  of  the  data 
reporting services, but  should also  include any other services that the entity provides 
as  this  may  highlight  areas  which  may  affect  the  independence  of  the  data  reporting 
services  provider  and  give  rise  to  a  conflict  of  interest.  An  applicant  seeking 
authorisation as a data reporting services provider should also provide information on 
the  composition,  functioning  and  independence  of  its  governing  bodies  in  order  for 
competent  authorities  to  be  able  to  assess  whether  the  policies,  procedures  and 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349 

EN 

314 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

corporate governance structure ensure the independence of the data reporting services 
provider and the avoidance of conflicts of interest.  

Conflicts of interest can arise between the data reporting services provider and  clients 
using  its  services  to  meet  their  regulatory  obligations  and  other  entities  purchasing 
data  from  data  reporting  services  providers.  In  particular,  those  conflicts  may  arise 
where the data reporting services provider is engaged in other activities such as acting 
as  a  market  operator,  investment  firm  or  trade  repository.  If  left  unaddressed,  this 
could lead to a situation where the data reporting services provider has an incentive to 
delay publication or submission or to trade on the basis of the confidential information 
it  has  received.  The  data  reporting  services  provider  should  therefore  adopt  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  identifying,  preventing  and  managing  existing  and 
potential conflicts of interest, including preparing an inventory of conflicts of interest 
and implementing appropriate policies and procedures to manage those conflicts and, 
where needed, separate business functions and personnel to limit the flow of sensitive 
information between different business areas of the data reporting services provider.  

All members of the management body of a data reporting services provider should be 
persons  who  are  of  sufficiently  good  repute  and  possess  sufficient  knowledge,  skills 
and  experience,  as  those  persons  play  a  key  role  in  ensuring  that  the  data  reporting 
services  provider  meets  its  regulatory  obligations  and  contribute  to  the  business 
strategy  of  the  data  reporting  services  provider.  It  is  therefore  important  for  the  data 
reporting services provider to  demonstrate that it  has a robust process for  appointing 
and  evaluating  the  performance  of  members  of  the  management  body  and  that  clear 
reporting lines and regular reporting to the management body are in place.  

The  outsourcing  of  activities,  in  particular  of  critical  functions,  is  capable  of 
constituting  a  material  change  of  the  conditions  for  the  authorisation  of  a  data 
reporting  services  provider.  To  ensure  that  the  outsourcing  of  activities  does  not 
impair  the  data  reporting  services  provider’s  ability  to  meet  its  obligations  under 
Directive  2014/65/EU  or  lead  to  conflicts  of  interest,  the  data  reporting  services 
provider  should  be  able  to  demonstrate  sufficient  oversight  and  control  over  those 
activities. 

The  IT systems  used by  a data reporting services provider should be well adapted to 
the  different  types  of  activities  these  entities  may  perform,  that  is  to  publish  trade 
reports, submit transaction reports or provide a  consolidated tape,  and robust enough 
to  ensure  continuity  and  regularity  in  the  provision  of  those  services.  This  includes 
ensuring  that  the  data  reporting  services  provider’s  IT  systems  are  able  to  handle 
fluctuations in the amount of data which it must handle. Such fluctuations, particularly 
unexpected increases in data flow, may adversely impact the effectiveness of the data 
reporting  services  provider’s  systems  and  as  a  result,  its  ability  to  publish  or  report 
complete and accurate information within the required timeframes. In order to handle 
this,  a  data  reporting  services  provider  should  periodically  test  its  systems  to  ensure 

EN 

315 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

that they are robust enough to handle changes in operating conditions and sufficiently 
scalable.  

The  backup  facilities  and  arrangements  established  by  a  data  reporting  services 
provider should be sufficient to enable the data reporting services provider to carry out 
its  services,  even  in  the  event  of  a  disruptive  incident.  A  data  reporting  services 
provider  should  establish  maximum  acceptable  recovery  times  for  critical  functions 
that would apply in the event of a disruptive incident, which should allow compliance 
with the deadlines for reporting and disclosing the information. 

To  ensure  that  the  data  reporting  services  provider  can  deliver  its  services,  it  should 
undertake  an  analysis  of  which  tasks  and  activities  are  critical  to  the  delivery  of  its 
services and of possible scenarios that may give rise to a disruptive incident, including 
taking steps to prevent and mitigate those situations.    

(9)

  Where a service disruption occurs, a data reporting services provider should notify the 
competent  authority  of  its  home  Member  State,  any  other  relevant  competent 
authorities, clients and the public as the disruption could also mean that those parties 
would not be able to fulfil their own regulatory obligations such as the duty to forward 
transaction  reports  to  other  competent  authorities  or  to  make  public  the  details  of 
executed transactions. The notification should allow those parties to make alternative 
arrangements for meeting their obligations.  

(10)

  The deployment of any IT systems’ updates may potentially impact the effectiveness 
and  robustness  of  the  system.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  should  therefore 
make use of clearly delineated development and testing methodologies to ensure that 
the  operation  of  the  IT  system  is  compatible  with  its  regulatory  obligations,  that 
compliance and risk management controls embedded in the systems work as intended 
and  that  the  system  can  continue  to  work  effectively  in  all  conditions.  Where  a  data 
reporting services provider undertakes a significant system change, it should notify the 
competent authority of its home Member State and other competent authorities, where 
relevant,  so  they  can  assess  whether  the  update  will  impact  their  own  systems  and 
whether the conditions for authorisation continue to be met. 

(11)

  Premature public disclosure, in the case of trade reports, or unauthorised disclosure in 
the  case  of  transaction  reports  could  provide  an  indication  of  a  person’s  trading 
strategy  or  reveal  sensitive  information  such  as  the  identity  of  the  data  reporting 
services provider’s clients. Therefore, physical controls, such as locked facilities, and 
electronic  controls  including  firewalls  and  passwords  should  be    put  in  place  by  the 
data reporting services provider to  ensure that only authorised personnel  have access 
to the data.   

(12)

  Breaches  in  the  physical  or  electronic  security  of  a  data  reporting  services  provider 
pose a threat  to  the confidentiality of client  data. Consequently, where such a breach 
occurs,  a  data  reporting  services  provider  should  promptly  notify  the  relevant 

EN 

316 

EN 

 
 

 

 

competent  authority  as  well  as  any  clients  which  have  been  affected  by  the  breach. 
Notification  to  the  competent  authority  of  the  home  Member  State  is  necessary  to 
enable  that  competent  authority  to  carry  out  its  ongoing  supervisory  responsibilities 
with  respect  to  whether  the  data  reporting  services  provider  is  properly  maintaining 
sound  security  mechanisms  to  guarantee  the  security  of  the  information  and  to 
minimise  the  risk  of  data  corruption  and  unauthorised  access.  Other  competent 
authorities  which  have  a  technical  interface  with  the  data  reporting  services  provider 
should  also  be  notified  as  they  may  be  adversely  affected,  particularly  where  the 
breach  relates  to  the  means  of  transferring  information  between  the  data  reporting 
services provider and the competent authority. 

(13)

  An investment firm which has transaction reporting obligations, known as a ‘reporting 
firm’, may choose to use a third party to submit transaction reports on its behalf to an 
ARM,  that  is  a  'submitting  firm'.  By  virtue  of  its  role  the  submitting  firm  will  have 
access  to  the  confidential  information  that  it  is  submitting.  However,  the  submitting 
firm  should  not  be  entitled  to  access  any  other  data  about  the  reporting  firm  or  the 
reporting  firm’s  transactions  which  are  held  at  the  ARM.  Such  data  may  relate  to 
transaction reports which the reporting firm has submitted itself to the ARM or which 
it  has  sent  to  another  submitting  firm  to  send  to  the  ARM.  This  data  should  not  be 
accessible to the submitting firm as it may contain confidential information such as the 
identity of the reporting firm’s clients. 

(14)

  A  data  reporting  services  provider  should  monitor  that  the  data  it  is  publishing  or 
submitting  is  accurate  and  complete  and  should  ensure  that  it  has  mechanisms  for 
detecting errors or omissions caused by the client or itself. In the case of an ARM, this 
can include reconciliations of a sample population of data submitted to the ARM by an 
investment  firm  or  generated  by  the  ARM  on  the  investment  firm’s  behalf  with  the 
corresponding data provided by the competent authority. The frequency and extent of 
such  reconciliations  should  be  proportionate  to  the  volume  of  data  handled  by  the 
ARM and the extent to which it is generating transaction reports from clients’ data or 
passing on transaction reports completed by clients. In order to ensure timely reporting 
that  is  free  of  errors  and  omissions  an  ARM  should  continuously  monitor  the 
performance of its systems. 

(15)

  Where  an  ARM  itself  causes  an  error  or  omission,  it  should  correct  this  information 
without delay as well as notify the competent authority of its home Member State and 
any competent authority to which it submits reports of the error or omission as those 
competent  authorities  have  an  interest  in  the  quality  of  the  data  being  submitted  to 
them.  The  ARM  should  also  notify  its  client  of  the  error  or  omission  and  provide 
updated  information  to  the  client  so  that  the  client’s  internal  records  may  be  aligned 
with the information which the ARM has submitted to the competent authority on the 
client’s behalf.  

(16)

  APAs  and  CTPs  should  be  able  to  delete  and  amend  the  information  which  they 
receive from an entity providing them with information to deal with situations where 

EN 

317 

EN 

 
 

 

 

in exceptional circumstances the reporting entity is experiencing technical difficulties 
and cannot  delete or amend the information  itself. However, APAs and CTPs should 
not otherwise be responsible for correcting information contained in published reports 
where  the  error  or  omission  was  attributable  to  the  entity  providing  the  information. 
This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  APAs  and  CTPs  cannot  know  with  certainty  whether  a 
perceived  error  or  omission  is  indeed  incorrect  since  they  were  not  party  to  the 
executed trade.  

(17)

  To  facilitate  reliable  communication  between  an  APA  and  the  investment  firm 
reporting a trade, particularly in relation to cancellations and amendments of specific 
transactions,  an  APA  should  include  in  the  confirmation  messages  to  reporting 
investment firms the transaction identification code that has been assigned by the APA 
when making the information public. 

(18)

  To  comply  with  its  reporting  obligation  under  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the 
European Parliament and of the Council2, an ARM should ensure the smooth flow of 
information to and from a competent authority, including the ability to transfer reports 
and deal with rejected reports. The ARM should therefore be able to demonstrate that 
it  can  comply  with  the  technical  specification  required  by  the  competent  authority, 
which  sets  out  the  necessary  rules  and  protocols  to  govern  the  interface  between  the 
ARM and the competent authority. 

(19)

  A data reporting services provider should also ensure that it stores the transaction and 
trade  reporting  information  which  it  handles  for  a  sufficiently  long  period  of  time  in 
order  to  facilitate  the  retrieval  of  historical  information  by  competent  authorities.  In 
the  specific  case  of  APAs  and  CTPs,  they  should  ensure  that  they  establish  the 
necessary  organisational  arrangements  to  maintain  the  data  for  at  least  the  period 
specified in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 and are able to respond to any request. 

(20)

  This Regulation sets out a number of additional services a CTP could perform which 
increase the efficiency of the market. A CTP should be able to provide further services 
going  beyond  the  additional  services  specifically  listed  in  this  Regulation  provided 
that  those  other  services  do  not  pose  a  risk  to  the  independence  of  the  CTP  or  the 
quality of the consolidated tape.  

(21)

 

In  order  to  ensure  efficient  dissemination  of  information  made  public  by  APAs  and 
CTPs  and  an  easy  access  and  use  of  such  information  by  market  participants,  the 
information should be published in a machine readable format through robust channels 
allowing  for  automatic  access  to  the  data.  While  websites  may  currently  not  always 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in  financial 
instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84). 
 

EN 

318 

EN 

 
 

 

 

offer  an  architecture  that  is  robust  and  scalable  enough  and  that  allows  for  easy 
automatic  access  to  data,  these  technological  constraints  may  be  overcome  in  the 
future. A particular technology should therefore not be prescribed, but criteria should 
be set out that need to be met by the technology which is to be used.  

(22)

  With respect to equity and equity-like instruments, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 does 
not  exclude  that  investment  firms  make  public  their  transactions  through  more  than 
one  APA.  However,  a  specific  arrangement  should  be  in  place  to  enable  interested 
parties consolidating the trade information from various APAs, in particular CTPs, to 
identify  such  potential  duplicate  trades  as  otherwise  the  same  trade  might  be 
consolidated  several  times,  and  published  repeatedly  by  the  CTPs.  This  would 
undermine the quality and usefulness of the consolidated tape. 

(23)

  When  publishing  a  transaction,  APAs  should  therefore  publish  transactions  reported 
by  investment  firms  by  including  a  ‘reprint’  field  indicating  whether  a  report  is  a 
duplicate. In order to allow for an approach that is neutral in terms of the technology 
used  it  is  necessary  to  provide  for  different  possible  ways  in  which  an  APA  can 
identify duplicates.  

(24)

 

In order to ensure that each transaction is only included once in the consolidated tape 
and  therefore  to  strengthen  the  reliability  of  the  provided  information,  CTPs  should 
not  publish  information  in  relation  to  a  transaction  published  by  an  APA  which  is 
identified as duplicative. 

(25)

  APAs should publish information on transactions, including the relevant time stamps, 
such  as  the  time  when  transactions  were  executed  and  the  time  transactions  were 
reported. This is the most meaningful from the perspective of data users. Furthermore, 
the  granularity  of  the  time  stamps  should  reflect  the  nature  of  the  trading  system  on 
which  the  transaction  was  executed.  A  greater  granularity  should  be  provided  when 
publishing  information  on  transactions  executed  in  electronic  systems  than  on 
transactions executed in non-electronic systems.  

(26)

  CTPs  may  publish  information  on  equity  and  non-equity  instruments.  Given  the 
different  requirements  for  the  operation  of  those  tapes,  and  in  particular  the 
significantly  broader  scope  of  financial 
instruments  covered  for  non-equity 
instruments  and  the  deferred  application  of  the  provisions  for  the  non-equity 
consolidated  tape,  this  Regulation  only  specifies  the  scope  of  the  CTP  consolidating 
information on equity-instruments.  

(27)

  The  provisions  in  this  Regulation  are  closely  linked,  since  they  deal  with  the 
authorisation, organisational requirements and the publication of transactions for data 
reporting  services  providers.  To  ensure  coherence  between  those  provisions,  which 
should  enter  into  force  at  the  same  time,  and  to  facilitate  a  comprehensive  view  and 
compact  access  to  them  by  persons  subject  to  those  obligations,  including  investors 

EN 

319 

EN 

 
 

 

 

that  are  non-Union  residents,  it  is  desirable  to  include  these  regulatory  technical 
standards in a single Regulation. 

(28)

  This  Regulation  specifies  the  data  publication  requirements  applicable  to  APAs  and 
CTPs.  In  order  to  ensure  consistent  practices  for  publishing  trade  information  across 
trading  venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  and  to  facilitate  the  consolidation  of  data  by  CTPs, 
this  Regulation  should  apply  in  conjunction  with  Regulation  (EU)  No  [RTS  1  on 
equity  transparency]  and  Regulation  (EU)  No  [RTS  2  on  non-equity  transparency] 
where detailed requirements applicable to the publication of trade information are set 
out. 

(29)

  The  requirements  in  respect  of  data  reporting  services  providers  set  out  in  Directive 
2014/65/EU  should  apply  from  3  January  2017  with  the  exception  of  Article  65(2) 
which applies from 3 September 2018. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same dates. 

(30)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(31)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council3, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

CHAPTER I 

AUTHORISATION 

 

(Articles 61(2) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Article 1 

Information to competent authorities  

                                                 

3    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

320 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  An applicant seeking authorisation as a data reporting services provider shall provide to 
the  competent  authority  the  information  set  out  in  Articles  2  to  4  and  the  information 
regarding all the organisational requirements set out in Chapters 2 and 3. 

2.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  promptly  inform  the  competent  authority  of  its 
home  Member  State  of  any  material  change  to  the  information  provided  at  the  time  of  the 
authorisation and thereafter. 

 

Article 2 

Information on the organisation  

1.  An applicant  seeking authorisation as a data reporting services provider shall include in 
its  application  for  authorisation  a  programme  of  operations  referred  to  in  Article  61(2)  of 
Directive 2014/65/EU. The programme of operations shall include the following information: 

(a)  information on the organisational structure of the applicant, including an organisational 
chart  and  a  description  of  the  human,  technical  and  legal  resources  allocated  to  its 
business activities; 

(b)  information  on  the  compliance  policies  and  procedures  of  the  data  reporting  services 

provider, including: 

(i)  the name of the persons  responsible for the approval  and maintenance of those 

policies;  

(ii)  the means to monitor and enforce the compliance policies and procedures; 

(iii) measures to be undertaken in the event of a breach; and  

(iv) a  description  of  the  procedure  for  reporting  to  the  competent  authority  any 
breach  which  may  result  in  a  failure  to  meet  the  conditions  for  initial 
authorisation; 

(c)  a list of all outsourced functions and resources allocated to the control of the outsourced 

functions; 

2.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  offering  services  other  than  data  reporting  services 
shall describe those services in the organisational chart. 

 

EN 

Article 3 

Corporate governance 

321 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  An applicant  seeking authorisation as a data reporting services provider shall include in 
its application for authorisation information on the internal corporate governance policies and 
the  procedures  which  govern  its  management  body,  senior  management,  and,  where 
established, committees. 

2.  The information set out in paragraph 1 shall include: 

(a)  a  description  of  the  processes  for  selection,  appointment,  performance  evaluation  and 

removal of senior management and members of the management body; 

(b)  a  description  of    the  reporting  lines  and  the  frequency  of  reporting  to  the  senior 

management and the management body ;  

(c)  a description of the policies and procedures on access to documents by members of the 

management body. 

 

Article 4 

Information on the members of the management body 

1.  An applicant  seeking authorisation as a data reporting services provider shall include in 
its  application  for  authorisation  the  following  information  in  respect  of  each  member  of  the 
management body:  

(a)  name, date and place of birth, personal national identification number or an equivalent 

thereof, private address and contact details; 

(b)  the position for which the person is or will be appointed; 

(c)  a  curriculum  vitae  evidencing  sufficient  experience  and  knowledge  to  adequately 

perform the responsibilities; 

(d)  criminal  records,  notably  through  an  official  certificate,  or,  where  such  a  document  is 
not  available  in  the  relevant  Member  State,  a  self-declaration  of  good  repute  and  the 
authorisation  to  the  competent  authority  to  inquire  whether  the  member  has  been 
convicted of any criminal offence in connection with the provision of financial or data 
services or in relation to acts of fraud or embezzlement. 

(e)  a  self-declaration  of  good  repute  and  the  authorisation  to  the  competent  authority  to 

inquire whether the member: 

(i)  has  been  subject  to  an  adverse  decision  in  any  proceedings  of  a  disciplinary 
nature brought by a regulatory authority or government body or is the subject of 
any such proceedings which are not concluded; 

EN 

322 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(ii)  has been subject to an adverse judicial finding in civil proceedings before a court 
in connection with the provision of financial or data services, or for impropriety 
or fraud in the management of a business; 

(iii) has been part of the management body of an undertaking which was subject  to 
an adverse decision or penalty by a regulatory authority or whose registration or 
authorisation was withdrawn by a regulatory authority; 

(iv) has  been  refused  the  right  to  carry  on  activities  which  require  registration  or 

authorisation by a regulatory authority;  

(v)  has  been  part  of  the  management  body  of  an  undertaking  which  has  gone  into 
insolvency or liquidation while the person was connected to the undertaking or 
within a year of the person ceasing to be connected to the undertaking; 

(vi) has  been  otherwise  fined,  suspended,  disqualified,  or  been  subject  to  any  other 
sanction in relation to fraud, embezzlement or in connection with the provision 
of financial or data services, by a professional body;  

(vii) has  been  disqualified  from  acting  as  a  director,  disqualified  from  acting  in  any 
managerial  capacity,  dismissed  from  employment  or  other  appointment  in  an 
undertaking as a consequence of misconduct or malpractice.  

(f)  An approximation of the minimum time that is to be devoted to the performance of the 

person’s functions within the data reporting services provider;  

(g)  a declaration of any potential conflicts of interest that may exist or arise in performing 

the duties and how those conflicts are managed. 

CHAPTER II 

ORGANISATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

 

(Articles 64(3), 64(4), 64(5), 65(4), 65(5), 65(6), 66(2), 66(3) and 66(4) of Directive 

2014/65/EU) 

Article 5  

Conflicts of interest 

1.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  operate  and  maintain  effective  administrative 
arrangements, designed to prevent conflicts of interest with clients using its services to meet 
their  regulatory  obligations  and  other  entities  purchasing  data  from  other  data  reporting 
services providers.. Such arrangements shall include policies and procedures for identifying, 
managing and disclosing existing and potential conflicts of interest and shall contain: 

EN 

323 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  an inventory of existing and potential conflicts of interest, setting out their description, 

identification, prevention, management and disclosure;  

(b)  the  separation  of  duties  and  business  functions  within  the  data  reporting  services 

provider including: 

(i)  effective  measures  to  prevent  or  control  the  exchange  of  information  where  a 

risk of conflicts of interest may arise; 

(ii)  the  separate  supervision  of  relevant  persons  whose  main  functions  involve 

interests that are potentially in conflict with those of a client; 

(c)  a  description  of  the  fee  policy  for  determining  fees  charged  by  the  data  reporting 

services provider and undertakings to which the DRSP has close links; 

(d)  a description of the remuneration policy for the members of the management body and 

senior management; 

(e)  the  rules  regarding  the  acceptance  of  money,  gifts  or  favours  by  staff  of  the  data 

reporting services provider and its management body. 

2.  The  inventory  of  conflicts  of  interest  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  1(a)  shall    include 
conflicts of interest arising from situations where the data reporting services provider: 

(a)  may realise a financial gain or avoid a financial loss, to the detriment of a client;  

(b)  may have an interest in the outcome of a service provided to a client, which is distinct 

from the client’s interest in that outcome;  

(c)  may have an incentive to prioritise its own interests or the interest of another client or 

group of clients rather than the interests of a client to whom the service is provided;  

(d)  receives  or  may  receive  from  any  person  other  than  a  client,  in  relation  to  the  service 
provided  to  a  client,  an  incentive  in  the  form  of  money,  goods  or  services,  other  than 
commission or fees received for the service. 

 

Article 6  

Organisational requirements regarding outsourcing  

1.  Where  a  data  reporting  services  provider  arranges  for  activities  to  be  performed  on  its 
behalf  by  third  parties,  including  undertakings  with  which  it  has  close  links,  it  shall  ensure 
that the third party service provider has the ability and the capacity, to perform the activities 
reliably and professionally. 

EN 

324 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  specify  which  of  the  activities  are  to  be 
outsourced, including a specification of the level of human and technical resources needed to 
carry out each of those activities. 

3.  A data reporting services provider that outsources activities shall ensure that it does not 
reduce its ability or power to perform senior management or management body functions.  

4.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  remain  responsible  for  any  outsourced  activity 
and shall adopt organisational measures to ensure:  

(a)  that  it  assesses  whether  the  third  party  service  provider  is  carrying  out  outsourced 
laws  and  regulatory 

in  compliance  with  applicable 

activities  effectively  and 
requirements and adequately addresses identified failures; 

(b)  the identification of the risks in  relation  to  outsourced activities and adequate periodic 

monitoring; 

(c)  adequate control procedures with respect to outsourced activities, including effectively 

supervising the activities and their risks within the data reporting services provider;  

(d)  adequate business continuity of outsourced activities;  

For the purposes of point (d), the data reporting services provider shall obtain information on 
the business continuity arrangements of the third party service provider, assess its quality and 
where needed, request improvements.  

5.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  ensure  that  the  third  party  service  provider 
cooperates with the competent authority of the data reporting services provider in connection 
with outsourced activities; 

6.  Where a data reporting services provider outsources any critical function, it shall provide 
the competent authority of its home Member State with: 

(a)  the identification of the third party service provider;  

(b)  the organisational measures and policies with respect to outsourcing and the risks posed 

by it as specified in paragraph 4;  

(c)  internal or external reports on the outsourced activities. 

For the purpose of paragraph 6, a function shall be regarded as critical if a defect or failure in 
its  performance  would  materially  impair  the  continuing  compliance  of  the  data  reporting 
services  provider  with  the  conditions  and  obligations  of  its  authorisation  or  its  other 
obligations under Directive 2014/65/EU. 

 

EN 

325 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 7 

Business continuity and back-up facilities 

1.  A data reporting services provider shall use systems and facilities that are appropriate and 
robust enough to ensure continuity and regularity in the performance of the services provided 
referred to in Directive 2014/65/EU. 

2.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  conduct  periodic  reviews,  at  least  annually, 
evaluating  its  technical  infrastructures  and  associated  policies  and  procedures,  including 
business  continuity  arrangements.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  remedy  any 
deficiencies identified during the review. 

3.  A data reporting services provider shall have effective business continuity arrangements 
in place to address disruptive incidents, including : 

(a)  the processes  which are critical to ensuring the services of the data reporting services 
relevant  outsourced  activities  or 

including  escalation  procedures, 

provider, 
dependencies on external providers; 

(b)  specific  continuity  arrangements,  covering  an  adequate  range  of  possible  scenarios,  in 
the short and medium term, including system failures, natural disasters, communication 
disruptions, loss of key staff and inability to use the premises regularly used; 

(c)  duplication of hardware  components, allowing  for failover to a back-up infrastructure, 

including network connectivity and communication channels; 

(d)  back-up  of  business  critical  data  and  up-to-date  information  of  the  necessary  contacts, 

ensuring communication within the data reporting services provider and with clients; 

(e)  the procedures for moving to and operating data reporting services from a back-up site; 

(f)  the  target  maximum  recovery  time  for  critical  functions,  which  shall  be  as  short  as 
possible  and  in  any  case  no  longer  than  six  hours  in  the  case  of  approved  publication 
arrangements (APAs) and consolidated tape providers (CTPs) and until the close of the 
next working day in the case of approved reporting mechanisms (ARMs); 

(g)  staff  training  on  the  operation  of  the  business  continuity  arrangements,  individuals’ 
roles  including  specific  security  operations  personnel  ready  to  react  immediately  to  a 
disruption of services; 

4.  A data reporting services provider shall set up an on- programme for periodically testing, 
reviewing and, where needed, modifying the business continuity arrangements. 

5.  A data reporting services provider shall publish  on its  website  and  promptly  inform  the 
competent authority of its home Member State and its clients of any service interruptions or 
connection disruptions as well as the time estimated to resume a regular service.  

EN 

326 

EN 

 
 

 

 

In  the  case  of  ARMs,  the  notifications  referred  to  in  paragraph  5  shall  also  be  made  to 

6. 
any competent authority to whom the ARM submits transaction reports.  

 

Article 8 

Testing and capacity 

1.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  implement  clearly  delineated  development  and 
testing methodologies, ensuring that: 

(a)  the operation of the IT systems satisfies the data reporting services provider’s regulatory 

obligations; 

(b)  compliance and risk management controls embedded in those systems work as intended; 

(c)  the IT systems can continue to work effectively at all times. 

2.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  also  use  the  methodologies  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1 prior to and following the deployment of any updates of the IT systems’. 

3.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  promptly  notify  the  competent  authority  of  its 
home  Member  State  of  any  planned  significant  changes  to  the  IT  system  prior  to  their 
implementation. 

In  the  case  of  ARMs,  the  notifications  referred  to  in  paragraph  3  shall  also  be  made  to 

4. 
any competent authority to whom the ARM submits transaction reports. 

5.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  set  up  an  on-going  programme  for  periodically 
reviewing and, where needed, modifying the development and testing methodologies. 

6.  A data reporting services provider shall run stress tests periodically at least on an annual 
basis.  A  data  reporting  services  provider  shall  include  in  the  adverse  scenarios  of  the  stress 
test unexpected behaviour of critical  constituent  elements  of its systems  and communication 
lines. The stress testing shall identify how hardware, software and communications respond to 
potential  threats,  specifying  systems  unable  to  cope  with  the  adverse  scenarios.  A  data 
reporting  services  provider  shall  take  measures  to  address  identified  shortcomings  in  those 
systems. 

7.  A data reporting services provider shall:  

(a)  have  sufficient  capacity  to  perform  its  functions without  outages  or  failures,  including 

missing or incorrect data; 

(b)  have  sufficient  scalability  to  accommodate  without  undue  delay  any  increase  in  the 
amount  of  information  to  be  processed  and  in  the  number  of  access  requests  from  its 
clients.  

EN 

327 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Article 9 

Security 

1.  A data reporting services provider shall set up and maintain procedures and arrangements 
for physical and electronic security designed to: 

(a)  protect its IT systems from misuse or unauthorised access;  

(b)  minimise the risks of attacks against the information systems  as defined in Article 2(a) 

of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council4; 

(c)  prevent unauthorised disclosure of confidential information; 

(d)  ensure the security and integrity of the data. 

2.  Where  an  investment  firm  (‘reporting  firm’)  uses  a  third  party  (‘submitting  firm’)  to 
submit  information  to  an  ARM  on  its  behalf,  an  ARM  shall  have  procedures  and 
arrangements  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  submitting  firm  does  not  have  access  to  any  other 
information about or submitted by the reporting firm to the ARM which may have been sent 
by the reporting firm directly to the ARM or via another submitting firm.  

3.  A data reporting services provider shall set up and maintain measures and arrangements 
to promptly identify and manage the risks identified in paragraph 1. 

In  respect  of  breaches  in  the  physical  and  electronic  security  measures  referred  to  in 

4. 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a data reporting services provider shall promptly notify: 

(a)  the  competent  authority  of  its  home  Member  State  and  provide  an  incident  report, 
indicating the nature of the incident, the measures adopted to cope with the incident and 
the initiatives taken to prevent similar incidents. 

(b)  its clients that have been affected by the security breach.  

In the case of ARMs, the notification referred to in paragraph 4(a) shall also be made to 

5. 
any other competent authorities to whom the ARM submits transaction reports. 

 

Article 10 

Management of incomplete or potentially erroneous information by APAs and CTPs 

                                                 

4 Directive  2013/40/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  12  August  2013  on  attacks  against 
information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA (OJ L 218, 14.8.2013, p. 8). 

EN 

328 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  APAs  and  CTPs  shall  set  up  and  maintain  appropriate  arrangements  to  ensure  that  they 
accurately publish the trade reports received from investment firms and, in the case of CTPs, 
from  trading  venues  and  APAs,  without  themselves  introducing  any  errors  or  omitting 
information  and  shall  correct  information  where  they  have  themselves  caused  the  error  or 
omission.  

2.  APAs  and  CTPs  shall  continuously  monitor  in  real-time  the  performance  of  their  IT 
systems ensuring that the trade reports they have received have been successfully published. 

3.  APAs  and  CTPs  shall  perform  periodic  reconciliations  between  the  trade  reports  they 
receive  and  the  trade  reports  that  they  publish,  verifying  the  correct  publication  of  the 
information.  

4.  An  APA  shall  confirm  the  receipt  of  a  trade  report  to  the  reporting  investment  firm, 
including the transaction identification code assigned by the APA. An APA shall refer to the 
transaction  identification  code  in  any  subsequent  communication  with  the  reporting  firm  in 
relation to a specific trade report.  

5.  An APA shall set up and maintain appropriate arrangements to identify on receipt trade 
reports  that  are  incomplete  or  contain  information  that  is  likely  to  be  erroneous.  These 
arrangements shall include automated price and volume alerts, taking into account: 

(a)  the sector and the segment in which the financial instrument is traded;  

(b)  liquidity levels, including historical trading levels;  

(c)  appropriate price and volume benchmarks;  

(d)  if needed, other parameters according to the characteristics of the financial instrument.  

6.  Where  an  APA  determines  that  a  trade  report  it  receives  is  incomplete  or  contains 
information  that  is  likely  to  be  erroneous,  it  shall  not  publish  that  trade  report  and  shall 
promptly alert the investment firm submitting the trade report.  

7.  APAs and CTPs shall delete and amend information in a trade report upon request from 
the  entity  providing  the  information  when  that  entity  cannot,  in  exceptional  circumstances 
delete or amend its own information for technical reasons. 

8.  APAs  shall  publish  non-discretionary  policies  on 
information  cancellation  and 
amendments in trade reports which set out the penalties that APAs may impose on investment 
firms  providing  trade  reports  where  the  incomplete  or  erroneous  information  has  led  to  the 
cancellation or amendment of trade reports.  

 

Article 11 

Management of incomplete or potentially erroneous information by ARMs 

EN 

329 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  An  ARM  shall  set  up  and  maintain  appropriate  arrangements  to  identify  transaction 
reports  that  are  incomplete  or  contain  obvious  errors  caused  by  clients.  An  ARM  shall 
perform  validation  of  the  transaction  reports  against  the  requirements  established  under 
Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  for  field,  format  and  content  of  fields  in 
accordance  with  Table  1  of  Annex  I  to  Commission  Regulation  (EU)  on  [transaction 
reporting]. 

2.  An  ARM  shall  set  up  and  maintain  appropriate  arrangements  to  identify  transaction 
reports which contain errors or omissions caused by that ARM itself and to correct, including 
deleting or amending, such errors or omissions. An ARM  shall perform  validation for field, 
format  and  content  of  fields  in  accordance  with  Table  1  of  Annex  I  to  Regulation  (EU)  [on 
transaction reporting].  

3.  An ARM shall continuously monitor in real-time the performance of its systems ensuring 
that  a  transaction  report  it  has  received  has  been  successfully  reported  to  the  competent 
authority in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.  

4.  An ARM shall perform periodic reconciliations at the request of the competent authority 
of its home Member State or the competent authority to whom the ARM submits transaction 
reports  between  the  information  that  the  ARM  receives  from  its  client  or  generates  on  the 
client’s  behalf  for  transaction  reporting  purposes  and  data  samples  of  the  information 
provided by the competent authority.  

5.  Any  corrections,  including  cancellations  or  amendments  of  transaction  reports,  that  are 
not correcting errors or omissions caused by an ARM, shall only be made at the request of a 
client and per transaction report. Where an ARM cancels or amends a transaction report at the 
request of a client, it shall provide this updated transaction report to the client.  

6.  Where an ARM, before submitting the transaction report, identifies an error or omission 
caused  by  a  client,  it  shall  not  submit  that  transaction  report  and  shall  promptly  notify  the 
investment  firm  of  the  details  of  the  error  or  omission  to  enable  the  client  to  submit  a 
corrected set of information.  

7.  Where an ARM becomes aware of errors or omissions caused by the ARM itself, it shall 
promptly submit a correct and complete report.  

8.  An  ARM  shall  promptly  notify  the  client  of  the  details  of  the  error  or  omission  and 
provide  an  updated  transaction  report  to  the  client.  An  ARM  shall  also  promptly  notify  the 
competent  authority  of  its  home  Member  State  and  the  competent  authority  to  whom  the 
ARM reported the transaction report about the error or omission. 

The  requirement  to  correct  or  cancel  erroneous  transaction  reports  or  report  omitted 
transactions  shall  not  extend  to  errors  or  omissions  which  occurred  more  than  five  years 
before the date that the ARM became aware of such errors or omissions.  

 

EN 

330 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 12 

Connectivity of ARMs 

1.  An ARM shall have in place policies, arrangements and technical capabilities to comply 
with  the  technical  specification  for  the  submission  of  transaction  reports  required  by  the 
competent  authority  of its home Member State and by  other competent  authorities to  whom 
the ARM sends transaction reports.  

2.  An ARM shall have in place adequate policies, arrangements and technical capabilities to 
receive transaction reports from clients and to transmit information back to clients. The ARM 
shall provide the client with a copy of the transaction report which the ARM submitted to the 
competent authority on the client’s behalf.  

 

Article 13 

Other services provided by CTPs 

1.  A CTP may provide the following additional services: 

(a)  provision of pre-trade transparency data; 

(b)  provision of historical data; 

(c)  provision of reference data; 

(d)  provision of research; 

(e)  processing,  distribution  and  marketing  of  data  and  statistics  on  financial  instruments, 

trading venues, and other market-related data;  

(f)  design, management, maintenance and marketing of software, hardware and networks in 

relation to the transmission of data and information. 

2.  A CTP may perform services other than those specified under paragraph 1 which increase 
the  efficiency  of  the  market,  provided  that  such  services  do  not  create  a  risk  affecting  the 
quality  of  the  consolidated  tape  or  the  independence  of  the  CTP  that  cannot  be  adequately 
prevented or mitigated. 

 

 

CHAPTER III 

PUBLICATION ARRANGEMENTS 

(Articles 64(1), 64(2) and 65(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

EN 

331 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 14 

Machine readability 

1.  APAs and CTPs shall publish the information which has to be made public in accordance 
with Articles 64(1) and 65(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU in a machine readable way. 

2.  CTPs  shall  publish  the  information  which  has  to  be  made  in  accordance  with  Article 
65(2) of Directive 2014/65/EU in a machine readable way. 

Information  shall  only  be  considered  published  in  a  machine  readable  way  where  all  of 

3. 
the following conditions are met: 

(a)  it  is  in  an  electronic  format  designed  to  be  directly  and  automatically  read  by  a 

computer;  

(b)  it is stored in an appropriate IT architecture in accordance with Article 8(7) that enables 

automatic access; 

(c)  it is robust enough to ensure continuity and regularity in the performance of the services 

provided and ensures adequate access in terms of speed;  

(d)  it can be accessed, read, used and copied by computer software that is free of charge and 

publicly available. 

For the purposes of point (a), the electronic format shall be specified by free, non-proprietary 
and open standards. 

4.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  3(a),  electronic  format  shall  include  the  type  of  files  or 
messages, the rules to identify them, and the name and data type of the fields they contain.  

5.  APAs and CTPs shall: 

(a)  make instructions available to the public, explaining how and where to easily access and 

use the data, including identification of the electronic format; 

(b)  make public any changes to the instructions referred to in point (a) at least three months 
before  they  come  into  effect,  unless  there  is  an  urgent  and  duly  justified  need  for 
changes in instructions to take effect more quickly; 

(c)  include  a  link  to  the  instructions  referred  to  in  point  (a)  on  the  homepage  of  their 

website. 

 

Article 15 

Scope of the consolidated tape for shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates and 

other similar financial instruments 

EN 

332 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  A CTP shall include in its electronic data stream data made public pursuant to Articles 6 
and  20  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  relating  to  all  financial  instruments  referred  to  in 
those Articles.  

2.  When a new APA or a new trading venue starts operating, a CTP shall include the data 
made  public  by  that  APA  or  trading  venue  in  the  electronic  data  stream  of  its  consolidated 
tape as soon as possible, and in any case no later than six months after the start of the APA’s 
or trading venue’s operations. 

 

Article 16 

Identification of original and duplicative trade reports in shares, depositary receipts, 

ETFs, certificates and other similar financial instruments 

1.  Where  an  APA  publishes  a  trade  report  which  is  a  duplicate,  it  shall  insert  the  code 
‘DUPL’ in a reprint field to enable recipients of the data to differentiate between the original 
trade report and any duplicates of that report. 

2.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  1,  an  APA  shall  require  each  investment  firm  to  comply 
with one of the following conditions:  

(a)  to  certify  that  it  only  reports  transactions  in  a  particular  financial  instrument  through 

that APA;  

(b)  to use an identification mechanism which flags one report as the original one (‘ORGN), 

and all other reports of the same transaction as duplicates (‘DUPL’). 

 

Article 17 

Publication of original reports in shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates and 

other similar financial instruments 

A CTP shall not consolidate trade reports with the code ‘DUPL’ in the reprint field.  

 

Article 18 

Details to be published by the APA 

1.  An APA shall make public:  

(a)  for  transactions  executed  in  respect  of  shares,  depositary  receipts,  exchange-traded 
funds  (ETFs),  certificates  and  other  similar  financial  instruments,  the  details  of  a 
transaction  specified  in  Table  2  of  Annex  I  to  Commission  Regulation  (EU)  [RTS  on 

EN 

333 

EN 

 
 

 

 

equity  transparency]and,  use  the  appropriate  flags  listed  in  Table  3  of  Annex  I  to 
Commission Regulation (EU) [RTS on equity transparency];  

(b)  for  transactions  executed  in  respect  of  bonds,  structured  finance  products,  emission 
allowances and derivatives the details of a transaction specified in Table 1 of Annex II 
to  Commission  Regulation  (EU)  [RTS  on  non-equity  transparency]  and  use  the 
appropriate flags listed in Table 2 of Annex II to Commission Regulation (EU) [RTS on 
non-equity transparency]. 

2.  Where  publishing  information  on  when  the  transaction  was  reported,  an  APA  shall 
include the date and time, up to the second, it publishes the transaction. 

3.  By way of derogation from paragraph 2, an APA that publishes information regarding a 
transaction  executed  on  an  electronic  system  shall  include  the  date  and  time,  up  to  the 
millisecond, of the publication of that transaction in its trade report.  

4.  For the purposes of paragraph 3. an ‘electronic system’ shall mean a system where orders 
are electronically tradable or where orders are tradable outside the system provided that they 
are advertised through the given system. 

5.  Timestamps  referred  to  in  paragraphs  2  and  3  shall,  respectively,  not  diverge  by  more 
than  one  second  or  millisecond  from  the  Coordinated  Universal  Time  (UTC)  issued  and 
maintained by one of the timing centres listed in the latest Bureau International des Poids et 
Mesures (BIPM) Annual Report on Time Activities. 

 

Article 19 

Non-discrimination 

APA and CTPs shall ensure that the information which has to be made public is sent through 
all distribution channels at the same time, including when the information is made public as 
close to real time as technically possible or 15 minutes after the first publication.  

 

A CTP shall make public:  

Article 20 

Details to be published by the CTP 

(a)  for transactions executed in respect of shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates and 
other  similar  financial  instruments,  the  details  of  a  transaction  specified  in  Table  2  of 
Annex  I  to  Commission  Regulation  (EU)  [RTS  on  equity  transparency]  and  use  the 
appropriate flags listed in Table 3 of Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) [RTS on 
equity transparency];  

EN 

334 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(b)  for  transactions  executed  in  respect  of  bonds,  structured  finance  products,  emission 
allowances and derivatives the details of a transaction specified in Table 1 of Annex II 
to  Commission  Regulation  (EU)  [RTS  on  non-equity  transparency]and  use  the 
appropriate flags listed in Table 2 of Annex II to Commission Regulation (EU) [RTS on 
non-equity transparency]. 

Article 21 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It  shall  apply  from  3  January  2017,  except  Articles  14(2)  and  20(b)  that  shall  apply  from  3 
September 2018 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

335 

EN 

 
 

 

 
