

 

 

 Draft regulatory technical standards on access in respect 

RTS 15:
of central counterparties and trading venues 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

341 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU)  …/.. 

of XXX 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 

and of the Council on markets in financial instruments with regard to 
regulatory technical standards on clearing access in respect of central 

counterparties and trading venues  

(Text with EEA relevance) 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/20121, and in particular Articles 35(6) and 36(6) thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

To prevent distortion of competition, central counterparties (CCPs) as well as trading 
venues  should  only  be  able  to  deny  an  access  request  where  they  have  made  all 
reasonable efforts to manage the risk arising from granting that access but significant 
undue risk remains. 

In accordance with Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 if a CCP or trading venue denies an 
access  request  it  has  to  provide  full  reasons  for  that  decision  and  this  includes 
identifying how the relevant risks arising from granting access would in the particular 
situation  be  unmanageable  and  that  there  would  be  significant  undue  risk  remaining. 
An appropriate way of doing this is for the party denying access to clearly outline the 
changes that would arise from granting access, how it would have to manage the risk 
associated with changes in consequence of granting access, and to explain the impact 
on its structures.  

Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  does  not  distinguish  between  risks  incurred  by  CCPs 
and trading venues when granting access and includes the same general categories of 
conditions  to  be  considered  by  trading  venues  and  CCPs  when  assessing  access 
requests. However, due to the different nature of the activities of CCPs as compared to 
trading venues, risks stemming from granting access may in practice impact CCPs and 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84.  

EN 

342 

EN 

 
 

 

 

trading venues differently, thus demanding an approach differentiating between CCPs 
and trading venues. 

(4)

  When  a  competent  authority  assesses  whether  access  would  threaten  the  smooth  and 
orderly functioning of the markets or adversely affect systemic risk, it should consider 
whether  the  CCP  or  trading  venue  in  question  has  adequate  risk  management 
procedures,  including  with  respect  to  operational  and  legal  risks,  to  avoid  the  access 
agreement creating significant undue risks to third parties that cannot be mitigated. 

(5)

 

The  terms  under  which  access  must  be  permitted  should  be  reasonable  and  non-
discriminatory  so  as  not  to  undermine  the  purpose  for  which  the  access  provisions 
were  introduced.  Charging  fees  in  a  discriminatory  way  so  as  to  deter  access  should 
not be permitted. However, fees could differ for objectively justified reasons, such as 
where the costs to implement the access arrangements are higher. When access results 
in  a  trading  venue  dealing  with  two  or  more  CCPs,  it  is  important  to  specify  how 
trades on the trading venue will be allocated to the CCP that is party to the agreement, 
if the agreement creates a situation where there are two or more CCPs with access to 
the trading venue . 

(6)

  When  granting  access  CCPs  and  trading  venues  incur  both  one-off  costs,  such  as 
assessing legal requirements, and ongoing costs. Since the scope of the access request 
and the associated costs for implementing the access agreement are likely to differ on 
a  case-by-case  basis,  it  is  not  appropriate  to  cover  the  specific  allocation  of  costs 
between the CCP and the trading venue in this Regulation, However, the allocation of 
costs  is  an  important  element  of  an  access  agreement,  therefore  both  parties  should 
specify in the access arrangement the coverage of costs.  

(7)

 

Pursuant  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council2, a CCP wishing to extend its business to additional services or activities not 
covered  by  the  initial  authorisation  should  submit  a  request  for  an  extension  of 
authorisation.  An  extension  of  authorisation  is  needed  where  a  CCP  intends  to  offer 
clearing  services  on  financial  instruments  with  a  different  risk  profile  or  that  have 
material differences from the CCP’s existing product set. When a contract traded on a 
trading venue to which a CCP has granted access is in a class of financial instruments 
covered  by  the  CCP’s  existing  authorisation  and  has  therefore  similar  risk 
characteristics  to  the  contracts  already  cleared  by  the  CCP,  such  a  contract  is  to  be 
considered as economically equivalent.  

(8)

 

In order to ensure that a CCP does not apply discriminatory collateral and margining 
requirements to  economically equivalent  contracts traded on a trading venue that has 
been  granted  access  to  the  CCP,  any  change  to  the  margining  methodology  and 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  July  2012  on  OTC 
derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p. 1). 

EN 

343 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(9)

 

operational  requirements  regarding  margining  and  netting  applied  to  economically 
equivalent contracts already cleared by the CCP should be subject to a review by the 
risk committee of the CCP and be considered as a significant change to the models and 
parameters  for  the  purpose  of  the  review  procedure  as  provided  for  by  Regulation 
(EU) No 648/2012. Such a review should validate that the new models and parameters 
are non-discriminatory and based on relevant risk considerations. 

Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  prevents  competitive  distortions  by  requiring  non-
discriminatory access to CCPs offering clearing of OTC derivatives to trading venues. 
In  turn,  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  recognises  the  need  to  introduce  similar 
requirements  for  regulated  markets.  Given  that  a  CCP  may  clear  both  OTC  and 
exchange-traded derivatives, non-discriminatory treatment of economically equivalent 
contracts  traded  on  a  trading  venue  requesting  access  to  a  CCP  should  take  into 
account all relevant contracts cleared by that CCP, irrespective of where the contracts 
are traded. 

(10)

  Article  35  (6)(e)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  refers  to  the  cross-margining  of 
correlated contracts. The term “portfolio margining” should be used when referring to 
correlated contracts cleared by the same CCP, rather than “cross-margining” which is 
used  in  contexts  involving  margining  between  two  CCPs,  e.g.  in  relation  to 
interoperability arrangements. 

(11)

  A notification by a relevant competent authority to the CCP college and the European 
Securities  and  Markets  Authority  (ESMA)  about  the  approval  of  CCP  transitional 
arrangements in  accordance with  Article 35 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  should 
be made without undue delay in order to assist other relevant competent authorities to 
understand  the  impact  this  will  have  on  the  CCP  and  any  trading  venues  that  are 
connected  by  close  links  to  that  CCP.  The  notification  should  contain  all  relevant 
information  necessary  to  enable  the  CCP  college  and  ESMA  to  understand  the 
decision and to enhance transparency.  

(12)

  Clear requirements about the information to be provided by CCPs and trading venues 
when  notifying  competent  authorities  and  ESMA  that  they  wish  to  benefit  from 
transitional  arrangements  in  accordance  with  Articles  35  and  36  of  Regulation  (EU) 
No  600/2014    should  contribute  to  a  transparent  and  harmonised  application  of  the 
notification  procedure.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  the  notification  procedure  to 
include uniform  templates for the notifications so as to  enable consistent supervisory 
practices and a level playing field.   

(13)

 

It is important to avoid the risk of larger trading venues using calculation methods that  
minimise  their  annual  notional  amount  with  the  aim  of  benefiting  from  the  opt-out 
mechanism  to  the  access  provisions.  Where  there  are  equally  accepted  alternative 
approaches  to  calculating  notional  amount,  using  the  calculation  which  gives  the 
higher value helps avoid that risk. The methods used for calculating notional amount 
for  the  purposes  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  should  enable  genuinely  smaller 

EN 

344 

EN 

 
 

 

 

trading venues that have not  yet  acquired the technological  capability to  engage on a 
level  playing  field  with  the  majority  of  the  post-trade  infrastructure  market  to  make 
use  of  the  opt-out  mechanism.  It  is  also  important  for  the  methods  prescribed  to  be 
straightforward  and  unambiguous  in  order  to  contribute  to  consistent  supervisory 
practices and a level playing field. 

(14)

 

It  is  important  for  trading  venues  to  be  consistent  about  calculating  their  notional 
amount for the purposes of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 so that the access provisions 
can be applied fairly by trading venues. This is particularly relevant for certain types 
of exchange-traded derivatives, traded in units, such as barrels or tons.  

(15)

  The requirements in respect of non-discriminatory access to CCPs and trading venues 
set  out  in  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  apply  from  3  January  2017.  To  ensure 
consistency  and  legal  certainty,  this  Regulation  should  apply  from  the  same  date. 
However,  to  ensure  that  CCPs  and  trading  venues  may  benefit  from  the  transitional 
arrangements,  it  is  necessary  for  certain  transitional  provisions  to  apply  at  an  earlier 
date. 

(16)

  The  provisions  in  this  Regulation  are  closely  linked,  since  they  deal  with  the  denial 
and granting of access to CCPs and trading venues, incl. the procedure for CCPs and 
trading  venues  to  opt  out.  To  ensure  coherence  between  those  provisions,  most  of 
which should enter into force at the same time, and to facilitate a comprehensive view 
and compact access to them by persons subject to those obligations, it is desirable to 
include these regulatory technical standards in a single Regulation. 

(17)

  This  Regulation  is  based  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical  standards  submitted  by 

ESMA to the Commission.  

(18)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council3, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

SECTION I 

                                                 

3    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

345 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Non-discriminatory access to CCPs and Trading Venues 

Article 1 

Conditions on the denial of access by a CCP  

1.  A  CCP  shall  assess  whether  granting  access  would  create  any  of  the  risks  specified  in 
Articles 2, 3 and 4 and may deny access only if, after making all reasonable efforts to manage 
its risks, there remain significant undue risks that cannot be managed. 

If a CCP denies access, it shall identify which risks specified in Articles 2, 3 and 4 would 

2. 
result from granting access and why those risks cannot be managed. 

 

Article 2 

Denial of access by a CCP based on the anticipated volume of transactions 

A  CCP  may  deny  an  access  request  on  grounds  of  the  anticipated  volume  of  transactions 
arising from such access only where this would result in one of the following: 

(a)  exceeding the scalable design of the CCP to such an extent that the CCP cannot adapt its 

systems so as to deal with the anticipated volume of transactions;  

(b)  exceeding the planned capacity of the CCP in a way that the CCP would not be able to 

acquire the required extra capacity to clear the anticipated volume of transactions. 

 

Denial of access by a CCP based on operational risk and complexity 

Article 3 

A CCP may deny an access request on grounds of operational risk and complexity.  

Relevant types of risks shall include any of the following: 

(a)  incompatibility of CCP and trading venue IT systems impeding the CCP to provide for 

connectivity between the systems; 

(b)  lack of human resources with the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to perform 
the CCP’s functions regarding the risk stemming from additional financial instruments 
where these differ from financial instruments already cleared by the CCP or inability to 
deploy such human resources.  

 

EN 

Article 4 

346 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Denial of access by a CCP based on other factors creating significant undue risks 

1.  A CCP may deny an access request on grounds of significant undue risks where:  

(a)  the  CCP  does  not  offer  clearing  services  in  respect  of  the  financial  instruments  for 
which access is being requested and would not be able with reasonable efforts to launch 
a  clearing  service  consistent  with  the  requirements  set  out  in  Titles  II,  III  and  IV  of 
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012;  

(b)  granting access would threaten the economic viability of the CCP or its ability to meet 

minimum capital requirements under Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012; 

(c)  there are legal risks;  

(d)  there  is  an  incompatibility  of  CCP  rules  and  trading  venue  rules  that  the  CCP  cannot 

remedy in cooperation with the trading venue. 

2.  A CCP may refuse an access request based on legal risk as referred to in paragraph 1(c), 
where as a result of granting access, the CCP would not be able to enforce its rules relating to 
close  out  netting  and  default  procedures  or  cannot  manage  the  risks  arising  from  the 
simultaneous use of different trade acceptance models.  

 

Article 5 

Conditions on the denial of access by a trading venue 

1.  A  trading  venue  shall  assess  whether  granting  access  would  create  any  of  the  risks 
specified in Articles 6 and 7 and may deny access only if, after making all reasonable efforts 
to manage its risks, there remain significant undue risks that cannot be managed. 

If a trading venue denies access, it shall identify which risks specified in Articles 5 and 6 

2. 
would result from granting access and why those risks cannot be managed. 

 

Article 6 

Denial of access by a trading venue based on operational risk and complexity 

A trading venue may deny  an  access  request  on  grounds of  operational risk and complexity 
arising from such access only if the relevant types of risks could result in incompatibility of 
CCP  IT  systems  and  trading  venue  IT  systems,  impeding  the  trading  venue  to  provide  for 
connectivity between those systems. 

 

EN 

Article 7 

347 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Denial of access by a trading venue based on other factors creating significant undue 

risks 

A trading venue may deny an access request on grounds of significant undue risks in any of 
the following cases: 

(a)  threat  to  the  economic  viability  of  the  trading  venue  or  its  ability  to  meet  minimum 
capital  requirements  under  Article  47(1)(f)  of  Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council4,  

(b)  incompatibility  of  trading  venue  rules  and  CCP  rules  that  the  trading  venue  cannot 

remedy in cooperation with the CCP. 

 

Article 8 

Conditions under which access will threaten the smooth and orderly functioning of 

markets or adversely affect systemic risk 

In addition to liquidity fragmentation, as defined in Article 2(1)(45) of  Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014,  for  the  purposes  of  Articles  35(4)(b)  and  36(4)(b)  of  that  Regulation,  granting 
access  will  threaten  the  smooth  and  orderly  functioning  of  the  markets,  or  adversely  affect 
systemic risk, where the competent authority can provide full reasons for the denial, including 
evidence  that  the  risk  management  procedures  of  one  or  both  of  the  parties  to  the  access 
request are insufficient to prevent the granting of access from creating significant undue risks 
to  third  parties,  and  there  is  no  remedial  action  that  would  sufficiently  mitigate  those 
inadequacies. 

 

 

SECTION 2 

Conditions under which access must be permitted  

Article 9  

Conditions under which access must be permitted 

1.  The parties shall agree on their respective rights  and obligations arising from the access 
granted,  including  the  applicable  law  governing  their  relationships.  The  terms  of  the  access 
agreement shall: 

                                                 

4 Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial 
instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349). 

EN 

348 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  be clearly defined, transparent, valid and enforceable; 

(b)  specify the way in which transactions on the trading venue will be allocated to the CCP 
that  is  party  to  the  agreement,  where  two  or  more  CCPs  have  access  to  the  trading 
venue; 

(c)  contain  clear  rules  concerning  the  moment  of  entry  of  transfer  orders,  construed 
pursuant  to  Directive  98/26/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council5,  into 
relevant systems and the moment of irrevocability; 

(d)  contain  rules  regarding  the  termination  of  the  access  agreement  by  any  of  the  parties, 

which shall: 

(i)  provide for termination in an orderly manner that does not unduly expose other 
entities to additional risks, including clear and transparent arrangements for the 
management  and  orderly  run-off  of  contracts  and  positions  made  under  the 
access agreement that were open at the point of termination; 

(ii)  ensure  that  the  relevant  party  is  given  a  reasonable  amount  of  time  to  remedy 

any breach that does not give rise to immediate termination; 

(iii) allow the termination, if risks increase in a way that would have justified denial 

of access in the first instance;  

(e)  specify the financial instruments being subject to the access agreement;  

(f)  specify the cover of the one-off and ongoing costs triggered by the access request;  

(g)  contain provisions for claims and liabilities stemming from the access agreement. 

2.  The terms  of the access  agreement  shall require that the parties to  the agreement put  in 
place adequate policies, procedures and systems to ensure the following: 

(a)  timely, reliable and secure communication between the parties; 

(b)  prior consultation to the other party where changes to either party’s operations are likely 
to  have  a  material  impact  on  the  access  agreement  or  on  the  risks  to  which  the  other 
party is exposed; 

(c)  timely notification to  the other party before a change is  implemented, in  the cases not 

covered by point (b); 

                                                 

5 Directive  98/26/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  19  May  1998  on  settlement  finality  in 
payment and securities settlement systems (OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 45). 

EN 

349 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(d)  resolution of disputes; 

(e)  identification, monitoring and management of the potential risks arising from the access 

agreement; 

(f)  reception  by  the  trading  venue  of  all  necessary  information  to  fulfil  its  obligations 

regarding the monitoring of open interest;  

(g)  acceptance by the CCP of delivery of physically settled commodities. 

3.  The relevant parties to the access agreement shall ensure the following: 

(a)  that proper risk management standards are maintained when granting access; 

(b)  that  information  provided  in  the  request  for  access  is  kept  up-to-date  throughout  the 

duration of the access agreement, including information about material changes;  

(c)  that non-public and commercially sensitive information including information provided 
during  the  development  phase  of  a  financial  instrument  may  only  be  used  for  the 
specific purpose for which it is conveyed and may only be acted upon for the specific 
purpose agreed by the entities.  

 

Non-discriminatory and transparent clearing fees charged by CCPs 

Article 10 

1.  A  CCP  shall  only  charge  fees  for  clearing  transactions  executed  on  a  trading  venue  to 
which  it  has  granted  access  on  the  basis  of  objective  criteria,  applicable  to  all  clearing 
members and, where relevant, clients.  Fees shall not depend on the trading venue where the 
transaction takes place.  

2.  A CCP shall make all clearing members and, where relevant, clients subject to the same 
schedule of fees and rebates.  

3.  A  CCP  shall  only  charge  fees  to  a  trading  venue  in  relation  to  access  on  the  basis  of 
objective  criteria.  The  same  fees  and  rebates  shall  apply  to  all  trading  venues  accessing  the 
CCP with regard to the same or similar financial instruments, unless a different fee schedule 
can be objectively justified.  

4. 
In accordance with Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 a CCP shall ensure that 
the  fee  schedules  referred  to  in  paragraphs  1,  2  and  3  of  this  Article  are  easily  accessible, 
adequately identified per service provided and sufficiently granular in order to ensure that fees 
charged are predictable.  

5.  For the purpose of paragraphs 1 to 4, relevant fees are fees charged to cover one-off and 
ongoing costs.  

EN 

350 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Non-discriminatory and transparent fees charged by trading venues 

Article 11 

1.  A  trading  venue  shall  only  charge  fees  in  relation  to  access  on  the  basis  of  objective 
criteria. The same schedule of fees and rebates shall apply to all CCPs accessing the trading 
venue with regard to the same or similar financial instruments, unless a different fee schedule 
can be objectively justified.  

2.  A trading venue shall ensure that the fee schedules referred to in paragraph 1 are easily 
accessible,  that  the  fees  are  adequately  identified  per  service  provided  and  sufficiently 
granular in order to ensure that the arising fees are predictable.  

3.  Paragraphs  1  and  2  shall  apply  to  all  fees  related  to  access,  including  those  that  are 
charged to cover one-off and ongoing costs.  

 

 

SECTION III 

Condtions for non-discriminatory treatment of contracts  

Article 12 

Collateral and margining requirements of economically equivalent contracts 

1.  The CCP shall determine whether  contracts  traded on the trading venue  to  which it has 
granted  access  are  economically  equivalent  to  contracts  with  similar  risk  characteristics 
already cleared by the CCP. For the purpose of this Article, a CCP shall consider all contracts 
traded on the trading venue to which it has granted access, which are in the class of financial 
instruments covered by the CCP’s authorisation referred to in Article 14 of Regulation (EU) 
No  648/2012,  or  by  any  subsequent  extension  of  authorisation  referred  to  in  Article  15  of 
Regulation  (EU)  No 648/2012,  as economically equivalent  to  the  contracts in  the respective 
class of financial instruments already cleared by the CCP.  

2.  A  CCP  may  consider  a  contract  traded  on  the  trading  venue  to  which  it  has  granted 
access,  which  presents  a  significantly  different  risk  profile  or  material  differences  from  the 
contracts already cleared by the CCP in the respective class of financial instruments, as non-
economically  equivalent  where  the  CCP  had  obtained  an  extension  of  the  authorisation 
pursuant  to  Article  15  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  with  respect  to  that  contract  and  in 
connection with that trading venue’s access request. 

3.  A  CCP  shall  apply  to  economically  equivalent  contracts  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  the 
same  margin  and  collateral  methodologies,  irrespective  of  where  the  contracts  are  traded.  A 
CCP shall subject the clearing of an economically equivalent contract referred to in paragraph 

EN 

351 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1  to  the  adoption  of  changes  to  the  CCP’s  risk  models  and  parameters,  only  if  necessary  in 
order  to  mitigate  the  risk  factors  in  relation  to  that  trading  venue  or  the  contracts  traded 
thereon.  Such  changes  shall  be  considered  as  significant  changes  to  the  CCP’s  models  and 
parameters referred to in Articles 28 and 49 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012.  

 

Article 13 

Netting of economically equivalent contracts 

1.  A  CCP  shall  apply  to  economically  equivalent  contracts  referred  to  in  Article  12(1)  of 
this  Regulation  the same netting procedures irrespective of where the  contracts  were traded, 
provided  that  any  netting  procedure  it  applies  is  valid  and  enforceable  in  accordance  with 
Directive 98/26/EC and the applicable insolvency law in the relevant Member State.  

2.  A  CCP  considering  that  the  legal  risk  or  the  basis  risk  related  to  a  netting  procedure  it 
applies to an economically equivalent  contract is  not sufficiently mitigated, shall subject the 
clearing of such a contract to the adoption of changes to that netting procedure excluding the 
netting of such contract. Such changes shall be considered as significant changes to the CCP’s 
risk models and parameters referred to in Article 28 and 49 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012.  

3.  For  the  purpose  of  paragraph  2,  “basis  risk”  shall  mean  the  risk  arising  from  less  than 
perfectly correlated movements between two or more assets or contracts cleared by the CCP.  

 

Article 14 

Cross-margining of correlated contracts (portfolio margining) 

Where a CCP calculates margins with respect to portfolio margining of financial instruments 
in accordance with Article 41 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and Article 27 of Commission 
Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No  153/2013 6 ,  the  CCP  shall  apply  its  portfolio  margining 
approach  to  all  relevant  correlated  contracts  irrespective  of  where  the  contracts  are  traded. 
Contracts with a significant and reliable correlation, or an equivalent statistical parameter of 
dependence, shall benefit from the same offsets or reductions. 

 

SECTION IV 

Transitional arrangements and final provisions 

 

                                                 

6 Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 153/2013 of 19 December 2012 supplementing  Regulation (EU) 
No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  with  regard  to  regulatory  technical  standards  on 
requirements for central counterparties (OJ L 52, 23.2.2013, p. 41). 

EN 

352 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Notification procedure from the CCP to its competent authority 

Article 15 

Where a CCP applies for permission to avail itself of transitional arrangements referred to in 
Article 35(5) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, it shall submit a notification to its competent 
authority in written form, using Form 1 set out in the Annex.  

 

Article 16 

Notification procedure from the competent authority to ESMA and the CCP college 

Relevant competent authorities shall notify ESMA and the CCP college of every decision to 
approve  a  transitional  arrangement  in  accordance  with  Article  35(5)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 in writing without undue delay and no later than one month from the decision, using 
Form 2 set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 

 

Article 17 

Notification procedure from the trading venue to its competent authority regarding the 

initial transitional period  

Where  a  trading  venue  does  not  wish  to  be  bound  by  Article  36  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014, it shall submit a notification to ESMA and its competent authority in written form, 
using Forms 3.1 and 3.2  set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 

 

Article 18 

Notification procedure from the trading venue to its competent authority regarding an 

extension of the transitional period  

Where a trading venue wishes to continue not to be bound by Article 36 of Regulation (EU) 
No  600/2014  for  a  further  thirty  months,  it  shall  submit  a  notification  to  ESMA  and  its 
competent  authority  in  written  form,  using  Forms  4.1  and  4.2  set  out  in  the  Annex  to  this 
Regulation. 

 

Article 19 

Further specifications for the calculation of notional amount for transitional purposes 

1. 
In accordance with Article 36(5) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, a trading venue that 
does not wish to be bound by Article 36 of this Regulation for a period of thirty months from 
the date of application of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall include in its calculation of its 

EN 

353 

EN 

 
 

 

 

annual  notional  amount  all  transactions  in  exchange-traded  derivatives  concluded  in  the 
calendar year preceding the application under its rules. 

2.  For  the  purposes  of  calculating  its  annual  notional  amount  for  2016  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  1,  a  trading  venue  shall  use  actual  figures  for  the  period  for  which  they  are 
available.  If  a  trading  venue  has  less  than  12  months  of  2016  data  available,  then  it  shall 
produce an estimated figure for 2016 using the following three inputs: 

(a)  actual data for the longest possible period from the beginning of 2016, including at least 

the first 8 months; 

(b)  actual data for the equivalent period during 2015;  

(c)  actual data for the entire year 2015. 

The estimated figure for 2016 shall be calculated as follows: the inputs referred to in point (a) 
shall be multiplied by the inputs referred to in point (c) and divided by the inputs referred to 
in point (b).   

3.  Where  a  trading  venue  wishes  to  continue  not  to  be  bound  by  Article  36  of  Regulation 
(EU)  No  600/2014  for  a  further  thirty  month  period,  it  shall  include  in  its  calculation  of  its 
annual  notional  amount  all transactions in  exchange-traded derivatives concluded in  each of 
the first two rolling years of the previous thirty month period  under its rules. 

4.  Where there are equally acceptable alternative approaches to calculating notional amount 
for certain types of instruments, but there are notable differences in the values to which these 
calculation methods  give rise, the calculation  which gives the higher value shall be used.  In 
particular  for  derivatives,  such  as  futures  or  options,  including  all  types  of  commodity 
derivatives  which  are  designated  in  units,  the  notional  amount  shall  be  the  full  value  of  the 
derivative’s  underlying  assets  at  the  relevant  price  at  the  time  at  which  the  transaction  is 
concluded.  

 

Article 20 

Approval and verification method by ESMA 

1.  For the purposes of verification in  accordance with Article 36(6)(d) of Regulation (EU) 
No  600/2014,  the  trading  venue  shall  submit  to  ESMA  on  request  all  facts  and  figures  on 
which the calculation is based.  

2.  ESMA shall also consider relevant post-trade data and annual statistics for verification of 
the submitted notional amount figures.  

EN 

354 

EN 

 
 

 

 

3.  ESMA shall decide on the approval of the opt-out within three months after the reception 
of all relevant information for the notification according to either Article 16 or 17, including 
the information specified by Article 18.  

 

Article 21 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017, except Articles 15 to 17, 19 and 20 that shall apply from 1 
September 2016. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

355 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex  

 

 

Form 1 

Notification referred to in Article 15 

Name of the 

Relevant contact 

 

Name(s) of trading 

Jurisdiction(s) of trading venue(s) 

CCP 

 

details 

 

 

 

 

venue(s) connected by 

connected by close links 

close links 

 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
... 

1. 
2. 
3. 
... 

Form 2  

Notification referred to in Article 16 

Name of 
the CCP 

 

Relevant contact 

  

details 

 

Date of 
approval 
decision 

 

Dates of beginning and end of 

transitional period 

Name(s) of trading 
venue(s) connected 

Jurisdiction(s) of trading 

venue(s) connected by close 

 

by close links 

 

links 

 

 

 

 

 

Beginning: 
End: 
 
 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
… 

1. 
2. 
3. 
... 

EN 

356 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Form 3.1 

General notification referred to in Article 17 

Name of the 
trading venue  

Relevant contact 

Name(s) and jurisdiction(s) of 

details 

 

trading venues in the same group 

based in the Union 

 

Name(s) and jurisdiction(s) 
of CCP(s) connected by close 

links 

 

 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
… 

1. 
2. 
3 
… 

Notification of notional amount referred to in Article 17 

Trading Venue: 

Traded notional amount in 2016 

Form 3.2 

Asset class X: 

Asset class Y: 

Asset class Z: 

... 

  

 

 

 

EN 

357 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Form 4.1 

General notification referred to in Article 18 

Name of the 
trading venue  

Relevant contact details 

Name(s) and jurisdiction(s) of 

Name(s) and jurisdiction(s) of 

 

trading venues in the same group 

CCP(s) connected by close 

based in the Union 

links  

 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
... 

1. 
2. 
3. 
... 

Form 4.2 

Notification of notional amount referred to in Article 18 

Name of the 

trading venue: 

 

Asset class X: 

Asset class Y: 

Asset class Z: 

... 

  

 

 

 

Notional amount for 

Notional amount for rolling 

rolling year 

... 

year 

... 

 

 

 

 

EN 

358 

EN 

 
 
