 

 

 

 Draft regulatory technical standards on access in respect 

RTS 16:
of benchmarks 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

359 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [Date] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on access 

to benchmarks  

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/20121, and in particular Article 37(4) (a), (b), and (c) thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 provides for the non-discriminatory access for clearing 
and  trading  between  central  counterparties  (CCPs)  and  trading  venues,  including 
access  to  licences  of  and  information  relating  to  benchmarks  which  are  used  to 
determine  the  value  of  some  financial  instruments  for  trading  and  clearing  purposes. 
Given the variety of different types of benchmarks covered, the information CCPs and 
trading venues need for clearing or trading purposes may vary depending on a number 
of factors, including the relevant financial instrument being traded or cleared and the 
type of benchmark that the financial instrument references.  

Therefore, it is not desirable to have an exhaustive list of the types of information that 
should be provided to CCPs and trading venues by a person with proprietary rights to 
a  benchmark.  CCPs  and  trading  venues  should  be  allowed  to  request  access  to 
information, provided it is required for clearing or trading purposes.  

The diversity of benchmarks and the different uses identified render a one size fits all 
approach  inappropriate  and  a  high  degree  of  harmonisation  on the  content  of  licence 
agreements  unsuitable.  Limiting  the  conditions  under  which  access  is  granted  to 
predetermined terms might therefore be detrimental to all parties. 

A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  should  be  able  to  set  different 
conditions  for  different  categories  of  CCPs  and  trading  venues  to  access  its 
benchmarks only where objectively justified, such as in terms of the quantity, scope or 
field of use demanded and applied in a proportionate manner. The different categories 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84.  

EN 

360 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

(10)

and the criteria defining the different categories of CCPs and trading venues should be 
made publicly available.  

The way a benchmark is assessed as new or not will vary on a case by case basis. The 
person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  should  therefore  demonstrate  in  what 
way  that  benchmark  is  new,  if  that  is  invoked  as  the  reason  for  denying  immediate 
access. Each assessment of a declared new benchmark should consider a combination 
of  various  factors  and  their  appropriate  weightings  and  not  rely  on  a  single  factor  to 
assess  whether  or  not  the  benchmark  meets  the  criteria  specified  in  Regulation  (EU) 
No 600/2014.  

in 

the  short  run, 

Accordingly,  although  the  values  of  two  benchmarks  could  be  highly  correlated, 
particularly 
their  compositions  or  methodology  could  be 
fundamentally  different.  The  long  run  correlation  and  similarities  in  the  composition 
and the methodology of each of the benchmarks should therefore be taken into account 
for assessing whether a benchmark is new. In addition to the factors laid down in this 
Regulation,  a  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  should  also  take  into 
account  additional factors that are specific to  the type of benchmark concerned.)  For 
commodity  benchmarks  other  factors  should  be  assessed,  including  whether  the 
relevant  benchmarks  are  based  on  different  underlying  commodities  and  different 
delivery locations. 

Certain  benchmarks  release  a  new  series  on  a  periodic  basis,  such  as  credit  default 
swaps  (CDS)  benchmarks.  In  those  cases,  the  newly  released  benchmark  is  a 
continuation  of  the  previous  series  and  should  therefore  not  be  considered  a  new 
benchmark. 

The requirements in respect of non-discriminatory access to and obligation to licence 
benchmarks set out in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 apply from 3 January 2019. To 
ensure  consistency  and  legal  certainty,  this  Regulation  should  apply  from  the  same 
date. 

This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

361 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Information to be made available to CCPs and trading venues 

Article 1 

1.  A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  shall,  upon  request,  make  available  to 
central  counterparties  (CCPs)  and  trading  venues  the  information  necessary  for  performing 
their clearing or trading functions, as appropriate to the specific type of benchmark to which 
access is sought and to the relevant financial instrument to be traded or cleared.  

2.  A CCP or trading venue shall in its request explain why such information is required for 
clearing or trading purposes. 

3.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  1,  relevant  trading  and  clearing  functions  include  the 
following:  

(a)  for a trading venue: 

(i)  the initial assessment of the characteristics of the benchmark; 

(ii)  marketing of the relevant product; 

(iii) support  of  the  price  formation  process  for  the  contracts  admitted  or  being 

admitted to trading; 

(iv) supporting on-going market surveillance activities; 

 

(b)  for a CCP: 

(i) 

performing  appropriate  risk  management  of  relevant  open  positions  in 
exchange-traded derivatives, including netting; 

(ii)  meeting relevant obligations set out in Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. 

4.  Relevant information in respect of price and data feeds  shall at least include:  

(a)  a feed of the benchmark’s values;  

(b)  prompt notification of any inaccuracy in the calculation of the benchmark’s values and 

of the updated or corrected benchmark values; 

EN 

362 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  historical benchmark values where the person with proprietary rights to the benchmark 

maintains such information. 

5. 
In respect of composition, methodology and pricing, the information provided shall allow 
CCPs and trading venues to understand how each benchmark value is created, and the actual 
methodology  used  to  make  the  benchmark’s  values.  Relevant  information  in  respect  of 
composition, methodology and pricing shall at least include:  

(a)  the definitions for all key terms used in relation to the benchmark; 

(b)  the rationale for adopting a methodology and procedures for the review and approval of 

the methodology; 

(c)  the criteria and procedures used to determine the benchmark, including a description of 
the input data, the priority given to different types of input data, the use of any models 
or  methods  of  extrapolation  and  any  procedure  for  rebalancing  the  constituents  of  a 
benchmark;  

(d)  the  controls  and  rules  that  govern  any  exercise  of  discretion  or  judgement,  to  ensure 

consistency in the use of such discretion or judgment; 

(e)  the  procedures  which  govern  benchmark  determination  in  periods  of  stress,  or  periods 
where  transaction-data  sources  may  be  insufficient,  inaccurate  or  unreliable  and  the 
potential limitations of the benchmark in such periods; 

(f)  the hours during which the benchmark is calculated; 

(g)  the  procedures  which  govern  the  benchmark’s  rebalancing  methodology  and  the 

resulting weightings of the constituents of the benchmark; 

(h)  the  procedures  for  dealing  with  errors  in  input  data,  or  the  benchmark  determination, 

including when a re-determination of the benchmark may be required; 

(i) 

information  regarding  the  frequency  for  any  internal  reviews  and  approvals  of  the 
composition  and  methodology  and,  where  applicable,  information  regarding  the 
procedures and frequency for external review of the composition and methodology. 

 

Article 2 

General conditions for the information through licensing to be made available to CCPs 

and trading venues 

1.  A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  shall  make  available  all  relevant 
information referred to in Article 1 requested by CCPs and trading venues through licensing 
without undue delay, either on a one-off basis, including amendments to previously supplied 

EN 

363 

EN 

 
 

 

 

information,  or  on  a  continuous  or  periodic  basis,  depending  on  the  type  of  information 
concerned.  

2.  A person with proprietary rights to a benchmark shall provide all relevant information to 
all  CCPs  and  trading  venues  through  licensing  on  the  same  timescales  and  under  the  same 
conditions, unless different conditions can be objectively justified. 

3. 
If,  and  for  as  long  as,  a  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  can  demonstrate 
that certain information is available publicly or through other commercial means to CCPs and 
trading  venues,  provided  such  information  is  reliable  and  timely,  it  need  not  supply  that 
information through licensing. 

 

Article 3 

Differentiation and non-discrimination 

1.  Where  a  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  sets,  in  accordance  with  Article 
37(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, different conditions, including fees and the conditions 
for  paying  them,  those  conditions  shall  apply  in  a  manner  specific  to  each  category  of 
licensees. 

2.  A person with proprietary rights to a benchmark shall set the same rights and obligations 
for the licensees within the same category.   

3.  A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  shall  make  the  criteria  defining  the 
different categories of licensees publicly available.  

4.  A person with proprietary rights to a benchmark shall, on request, provide to any CCP or 
trading  venue  for  free  the  conditions  applying  to  the  category  to  which  that  CCP  or  trading 
venue belongs. 

5.  A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  shall  make  available  to  all  licensees 
within  the  same  category  any  additions  or  modifications  to  the  conditions  for  licensing 
agreements agreed with a licensee within that category under the same conditions.  

 

Article 4 

Other conditions under which access is granted 

1.  A  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a  benchmark  shall  set  the  conditions  for  licensing 
agreements and make them available to CCPs and trading venues upon request free of charge. 
The conditions shall include the following: 

(a)  the scope of use and content of information for each use under the licensing agreements, 

clearly identifying in each case confidential information; 

EN 

364 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  the conditions for redistribution, if allowed, of information by CCPs and trading venues; 

(c)  the technical requirements for the delivery of the service;  

(d)  the fees and the conditions for paying them; 

(e)  the conditions under which the agreement expires taking into consideration the lifespan 

of financial instruments that reference the benchmark; 

(f)  the  contingency  circumstances  and  the  relevant  measures  to  regulate  the  continuation, 
transitional  periods  and  interruption  of  the  service  during  this  contingency  period, 
which:  

(i)  cater for termination in an orderly manner; 

(ii)  ensure  that  termination  is  not  triggered  by  minor  breaches  of  the  contract  and 
that  the  relevant  party  is  given  a  reasonable  amount  of  time  to  remedy  any 
breach that does not give rise to immediate termination.  

(g)  the governing law and allocation of liabilities. 

2.  The  licensing  agreement  shall  require  that  a  person  with  proprietary  rights  to  a 
benchmark, CCPs and trading venues put in place adequate policies, procedures and systems 
to ensure the following: 

(a)  implementation of the service without undue delay according to a prearranged schedule; 

(b)  keeping up to date all information provided by the parties throughout the duration of the 

access arrangement, including information that could have a reputational impact; 

(c)  a communication channel between the parties that is timely, reliable and secure during 

the lifetime of the licence agreement;  

(d)  consultation where any change to either entity’s operations is likely to have a material 
impact on the licence agreement or on the risks to which the other entity is exposed and 
notification  within  a  reasonable  notice  period  before  any  change  to  either  entity´s 
operation is implemented; 

(e)  the provision of information and the relevant instructions to transmit and use it through 

the technical means agreed; 

(f)  the  provision  of  up-to-date  information  to  persons  with  proprietary  rights  to  a 
benchmark regarding the redistribution, if allowed, of information to clearing members 
of CCPs and members or participants of trading venues;  

(g)  resolution  of  disputes  and  termination  of  the  agreement  occurs  in  an  orderly  manner 

according to the identified circumstances. 

EN 

365 

EN 

 
 

 

 

  

Standards guiding how a benchmark may be proven to be new 

Article 5 

1.  When establishing whether a new benchmark meets the cumulative criteria in accordance 
with  paragraphs  2(a)  and  (b)  of  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  a  person  with 
proprietary rights to a benchmark shall take the following standards  into account  

(a)  whether contracts based on the more recent benchmark are not capable of being netted 
nor  substantially  offset  with  contracts  based  on  the  relevant  existing  benchmark  by  a 
CCP; 

(b)  whether the regions and industry sectors covered by the relevant benchmarks are not the 

same, nor similar; 

(c)  whether the values of the relevant benchmarks are not highly correlated; 

(d)  whether  composition  of  the  relevant  benchmarks,  having  regard  to  the  number  of 
constituents, the actual constituents, their values and their weightings are not the same, 
nor similar; 

(e)  whether the methodologies of each relevant benchmark are not the same, nor similar.  

2.  For  commodity  benchmarks  the  following  additional  standards  shall  also  be  taken  into 
account: 

(a)  whether the relevant benchmarks are not based on the same underlying commodities; 

(b)  whether the delivery locations of the underlying commodities are not the same. 

3. 
In  addition  to  the  standards  specified  in  paragraph  1  and  2,  a  person  with  proprietary 
rights  to  a  benchmark  shall  also  take  into  account  other  standards  specific  to  the  types  of 
benchmarks being assessed, as appropriate.  

4.  A newly released series of a benchmark shall not constitute a new benchmark. 

 

Article 6 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2019.  

EN 

366 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

367 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

 

EN 

368 

EN 

 
 

 
