
 

 

 Draft 

regulatory 

RTS 12:
the 
determination  of  a  material  market  in  terms  of  liquidity  relating 
to trading halt notifications  

technical 

standards 

on 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

309 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council on markets in financial instruments with regard to regulatory 

technical standards on the determination of a material market in terms of 

liquidity relating to trading halt notifications 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1 , and in particular Article 48(12)(e) thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

It  is  necessary  to  adopt  regulatory  technical  standards  to  clarify  which  regulated 
markets  should  be  considered  material  in  terms  of  liquidity  for  a  specific  financial 
instrument so that those markets have in place appropriate systems and procedures for 
notifying competent authorities of trading halts. 

Directive 2014/65/EU extends the requirements relating to trading halts to multilateral 
trading facilities and organised trading facilities and it is therefore important to ensure 
that  financial  instruments  traded  on  those  venues  are  also  within  the  scope  of  these 
regulatory technical standards.  

It  is  important  to  ensure  a  proportionate  application  of  the  notification  requirement. 
After  being  notified,  competent  authorities  are  obliged  to  assess  whether  this 
notification should be disseminated to the rest of the market and to coordinate, where 
necessary,  a  market-wide  response.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  limit  the  number  of 
notifying  venues  so  as  to  reserve  this  mechanism  for  the  market  with  the  greatest 
potential for market wide impact when trading is halted on that market. 

(4)

 

For  equity  and  equity-like  financial  instruments,  the  material  market  in  terms  of 
liquidity  should  be  the  trading  venue  with  the  highest  turnover  in  the  Union  in  the 
financial  instrument  concerned  since  this  venue  has  the  greatest  scope  for  causing 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

310 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

market wide impact when halting trading. This is specified as the most relevant market 
in  terms  of  liquidity  for  the  purposes  of  the  reference  price  waiver  and  that 
specification should therefore be incorporated into this Regulation.   

For non-equity financial instruments, the material market in terms of liquidity should 
be the regulated market where the financial instrument concerned was first admitted to 
trading or, if it is not admitted to trading on a regulated market, it should be the trading 
venue where it was first traded. This ensures certainty for a range of complex financial 
instruments  by  establishing  a  simple  reference  point  to  the  trading  venue  on  which 
events  have  important  liquidity  impacts  on  other  markets  trading  the  same  financial 
instrument, typically due to the significant share in terms of the volumes executed in 
that instrument on that venue.  

The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 2 applies  from  3  January 
2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this Regulation should apply from the 
same date. 

This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission.  

ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council3, 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

(Article 48(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Material market in terms of liquidity  

A material market in terms of liquidity shall be:  

                                                 

2 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84) 
3    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

311 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  in  respect  of  a  share,  depositary  receipt,  exchange-traded  fund,  certificate  or  other 
similar  financial  instrument,  the  trading  venue  which  is  the  most  relevant  market  in 
terms  of  liquidity  for  that  instrument  as  set  out  in  Article  4  of  Commission  Delegated 
Regulation  (EU)  No  [xxxx/xxxx]  [RTS  on  transparency  requirements  in  respect  of 
shares,  depositary  receipts,  exchange-traded  funds,  certificates  and  other  similar 
financial instruments and on the trading obligation for firms], 

(b)  in  respect  of  a  financial  instrument  other  than  those  set  out  in  point  (a)  and  which  is 
admitted  to  trading  on  a  regulated  market,  the  regulated  market  where  that  financial 
instrument was first admitted to trading; 

(c)  in respect of a financial instrument other than those set out in point (a) and which is not 
admitted  to  trading  on  a  regulated  market,  the  trading  venue  where  that  financial 
instrument was first traded. 

 

Article 2 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

312 

EN 

 
 

 

 
