RTS 2:requirements in respect of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives
EUROPEAN COMMISSION
Brussels,
XXX
[…]
(2012)
XXX
draft
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..
of
XXX
[…]
EN 40 EN
COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..
of [date]
supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on transparency requirements for trading venues and investment firms in respect of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/20121, and in particular Article 1(8), Article 9(5), Article 11(4), Article 21(5) and Article 22(4) thereof,
Whereas:
A high degree of transparency is essential to ensure that investors are adequately (1)informed as to the true level of actual and potential transactions in bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives irrespective of whether those transactions take place on regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities (MTFs), organised trading facilities, systematic internalisers, or outside those facilities. This high degree of transparency should also establish a level playing field between trading venues so that the price discovery process in respect of particular financial instruments is not impaired by the fragmentation of liquidity, and investors are not thereby penalised.
At the same time, it is essential to recognise that there may be circumstances where (2)exemptions from pre-trade transparency or deferrals of post-trade transparency obligations should be provided to avoid the impairment of liquidity as an unintended consequence of obligations to disclose transactions and thereby to make public risk positions. Therefore, it is appropriate to specify the precise circumstances under which waivers from pre-trade transparency and deferrals from post-trade transparency may be granted.
1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p.84.
EN 41 EN
The provisions in this Regulation are closely linked, since they deal with specifying (3)the pre-trade and post-trade transparency requirements that apply to trading in non-equity financial instruments. To ensure coherence between those provisions, which should enter into force at the same time, and to facilitate a comprehensive view for stakeholders and, in particular, those subject to the obligations it is necessary to include these regulatory technical standards in a single Regulation.
Where competent authorities grant waivers in relation to pre-trade transparency (4)requirements or authorise the deferral of post-trade transparency obligations, they should treat all regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities, organised trading facilities and investment firms trading outside of trading venues equally and in a non-discriminatory manner.
It is appropriate to provide for clarification of a limited number of technical terms. (5)Those technical definitions are necessary to ensure the uniform application in the Union of the provisions contained in this Regulation and, hence, contribute to the establishment of a single rulebook for Union financial markets. Those definitions are purely functional for the purpose of setting out the transparency obligations for non-equity financial instruments and should be strictly limited to understanding this Regulation.
Exchange-traded-commodities (ETCs) and exchange-traded notes (ETNs) subject to (6)this Regulation should be considered as debt instruments due to their legal structure. However, since they are traded in a similar fashion to ETFs a similar transparency regime as that of ETFs should be applied.
In accordance with Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, a number of instruments should be (7)considered to be eligible for a pre-trade transparency waiver for instruments for which there is not a liquid market. This includes in particular derivatives subject to the clearing obligation but for which ESMA has determined that they shall not be subject to the trading obligation as well as bonds, derivatives, structured finance products and emission allowances which are not liquid.
A trading venue operating a request for quote (RFQ) system should at least make (8)public all the firm bid and offer prices or actionable indications of interest and the depth attached to those prices no later than at the time when the requester is able to execute a transaction under the system’s rules. This is to ensure that members or participants who are providing their quotes to the requester first are not put at a disadvantage.
The majority of liquid covered bonds are mortgage bonds issued to grant loans for (9)financing private individuals’ purchase of a home and the average value of which is directly related to the value of the loan. In this market, liquidity providers ensure that professional investors trading in large sizes are matched with home owners trading in small sizes. To avoid disruption of this function and contingent detrimental
EN 42 EN
consequences for home owners, the size specific to the instrument above which liquidity providers may benefit from a pre-trade transparency waiver should be set at a the trade size below which lie 40 percent of the transactions since this trade size is deemed reflective of the average price of a home.
Information which is required to be made available as close to real time as possible (10)should be made available as instantaneously as technically possible, assuming a reasonable level of efficiency and of expenditure on systems on the part of the person concerned. The information should only be published close to the prescribed maximum time limit in exceptional cases where the systems available do not allow for a publication in a shorter period of time.
Investment firms should make public the details of transactions executed outside a (11)trading venue through an Approved Publication Arrangement (APA). This Regulation should set out the way investment firms report their transactions to APAs and should apply in conjunction with Regulation (EU) XXX on [RTS 13 on DRSP] where the specific requirements applicable to APAs are specified.
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 provides for the possibility to specify the application of (12)the obligation of post-trade disclosure of transactions executed between two investment firms, including systematic internalisers, in bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives which are determined by factors other than the current market valuation, such as the transfer of financial instruments as collateral. Since such transactions do not contribute to the price discovery process, risk to blur the picture for investors and hinder achieving best execution, this Regulation specifies the transactions determined by factors other than the current market valuation which should not be made public.
Investment firms often conduct, on own account or on behalf of clients, transactions in (13)derivatives and other financial instruments or assets that are composed by a number of interlinked, contingent trades. Such package transactions enable investment firms and their clients to better manage their risks with the price of each component of the package transaction reflecting the overall risk profile of the package rather than the prevailing market price of each component. Package transactions can take various forms, such as exchange for physicals, trading strategies executed on trading venues or bespoke package transactions and it is important to take those specificities into account when calibrating the applicable transparency regime. It is therefore appropriate to specify for the purpose of this Regulation the conditions for applying deferrals from post-trade transparency to package transactions. Such arrangements should not be available for transactions which hedge financial instruments conducted in the normal course of the business.
Exchange for physicals are an integral part of financial markets, allowing market (14)participants to organise and execute exchange-traded derivatives transactions which are linked directly to a transaction in the underlying physical market. They are widely
EN 43 EN
used and they involve a multitude of actors, such as farmers, producers, manufacturers and processors of commodities. Typically an exchange for physical transaction will take place when a seller of a physical asset seeks to close out his corresponding hedging position in a derivative contract with the buyer of the physical asset, when the latter happens to also hold a corresponding hedge in the same derivative contract. They therefore facilitate the efficient closing out of hedging positions which are not necessary anymore.
Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, transactions executed on a trading venue (15)should be made public by market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue. In respect of transactions concluded outside the rules of a trading venue, it is essential to clarify which investment firm should make public a transaction in cases where both parties to the transaction are investment firms established in the Union to ensure the publication of transactions without duplication. Therefore, the responsibility to make a transaction public should always fall on the selling investment firm unless only one of the counterparties is a systematic internaliser and it is the buying firm.
Where only one of the counterparties is a systematic internaliser in a given financial (16)instrument and it is also the buying firm for that instrument, it should be responsible for making the transaction public as its clients would expect it to do so and it is better placed to fill in the reporting field mentioning its status of systematic internaliser. To ensure that a transaction is only published once, the systematic internaliser should inform the other party that it is making the transaction public.
It is important to maintain current standards for the publication of transactions carried (17)out as back-to-back trades to avoid the publication of a single transaction as various trades and to provide legal certainty on which investment firm is responsible for publishing a transaction. Therefore, two matching trades entered at the same time and for the same price with a single party interposed should be published as a single transaction.
Regulation (EU) 600/2014 allows competent authorities to require the publication of (18)supplementary details when publishing information benefitting from a deferral, or to allow deferrals for an extended time period. In order to contribute to the uniform application of these provisions across the Union, it is necessary to frame the condition and criteria under which supplementary deferrals may be allowed by competent authorities.
Trading in many non-equity financial instruments, and in particular derivatives, is (19)episodic, variable and subject to regular modifications of trading patterns. Static determinations of financial instruments which do not have a liquid market and of the various thresholds for the purpose of calibrating pre-trade and post-trade transparency obligations without providing for the possibility to adapt the liquidity status and the thresholds in light of changes in trading patterns would therefore not be suitable. It is
EN 44 EN
appropriate to set out the methodology and parameters which are necessary to perform the liquidity assessment and the calculation of the thresholds for the application of pre-trade transparency waivers and deferral of post-trade transparency on a periodic basis.
In order to ensure consistent application of the waivers to pre-trade transparency and (20)the post-trade deferrals it is necessary to create uniform rules regarding the content and frequency of data competent authorities may request from trading venues, APAs and Consolidated Tape Providers (CTPs) for transparency purposes as well as the methodology for calculating the respective thresholds and for publishing the information across the Union. Rules on the specific methodology and data necessary to perform calculations for the purpose of specifying the transparency regime applicable to non-equity financial instruments should be applied in conjunction with Regulation (EU) No [RTS 3 on Article 22 and DVC] which specifies in more general terms, the common elements with regard to the content and frequency of data requests to be addressed to trading venues, APAs and CTPs for the purposes of transparency and other calculations.
For bonds, except ETCs and ETNs, transactions below EUR 100,000 should be (21)excluded from the calculations of pre-trade and post-trade transparency thresholds, as those are considered to be of a retail size in accordance with Article 3(2) of Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council2. Those retail-sized transactions should in all cases benefit from the new transparency regime and any threshold giving rise to a waiver or deferral from transparency should be set above that level.
The purpose of the exemption from transparency obligations set out in Regulation (22)(EU) No 600/2014 is to ensure that the effectiveness of operations conducted by the Eurosystem in the performance of primary tasks as set out in the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank annexed to the Treaty on the European Union (the Statute), and under equivalent national provisions for members of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) in Member States whose currency is not the euro, which relies on the timeliness and confidentiality of transactions, should not be compromised by disclosure of information on such transactions. It is crucial for central banks to be able to control whether, when and how information about their actions is disclosed so as to maximise the intended impact and limit any unintended impact on the market. Therefore, legal certainty should be provided for the members of the ESCB and their respective counterparties as to the scope of the exemption from transparency requirements.
2 Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading and amending Directive 2001/34/EC (OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 64).
EN 45 EN
One of the primary ESCB tasks under the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (23)(TFEU) and the Statute and under equivalent national provisions for members of the ESCB in Member States whose currency is not the euro, appears to be the performance of foreign exchange policy, which entails holding and managing foreign reserves to ensure that, whenever needed, there is a sufficient amount of liquid resources available for its foreign exchange policy operations. The application of transparency requirements to foreign reserve management operations may result in unintended signals to the market, which could interfere with the foreign exchange policy of the Eurosystem and of members of the ESCB in Member States whose currency is not the euro. Similar considerations may also apply to foreign reserve management operations in the performance of monetary and financial stability policy on a case-by-case basis.
The exemption from transparency obligations for transactions where the counterparty (24)is a member of the ESCB should not apply in respect of transactions entered into by any member of the ESCB in performance of their investment operations. This should include operations conducted for administrative purposes or for the staff of the member of the ESCB, including transactions conducted in the capacity as an administrator of a pension scheme in accordance with Article 24 of the Statute.
The temporary suspension of liquidity obligations should only be imposed in (25)exceptional situations which represent a significant decline in liquidity across a class of financial instruments based on objective and measurable factors. It is necessary to differentiate between classes initially determined as having or not having a liquid market as a further significant decline in relative terms in a class already determined as illiquid is likely to occur more easily. Therefore, a suspension of transparency requirements in instruments determined as not having a liquid market should be imposed only if a decline by a higher relative threshold has occurred.
This Regulation should ensure that the pre-trade and post-trade transparency regime (26)established by Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 is appropriately calibrated to the market and is applied in a uniform manner throughout the Union. It is therefore essential that this Regulation lays down the necessary calculations to be performed, including their periods and methods. In this respect, to avoid market distorting effects, the calculation periods specified in this Regulation should ensure that the relevant thresholds of the regime are updated at appropriate intervals to reflect market conditions. It is also appropriate to provide for the centralised publication of the results of the calculations so that they are made available to all financial market participants and competent authorities in the Union in a single place and in a user-friendly manner. To that end, competent authorities should notify ESMA of the results of their calculations and then ESMA should publish those calculations on its website.
For the purpose of the transparency calculations, reference data is necessary as to (27)determine unequivocally to which sub-asset class each financial instrument belongs. Therefore, this Regulation requires trading venues to provide additional reference data
EN 46 EN
to that established by Regulation (EU) No. xx/xxxx [RTS on Art 27 MiFIR – Reference data].
For the purpose of the determination of the sub-classes of financial instruments not (28)having a liquid market for the asset-class of foreign exchange derivatives, the lack of data allowing a comprehensive analysis of the entire market permitted the definition of the qualitative liquidity criteria to be considered for the segmentation of the asset class but prevented the determination of the liquidity thresholds. As a result, until data of better quality is available, the asset class of foreign exchange derivatives should be considered not to have a liquid market.
The new legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in (29)financial instruments set out in Directive 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this Regulation should apply from the same date. However, to ensure that the new transparency regulatory regime can operate effectively from 3 January 2017, and that market participants have sufficient time to implement the new requirements by that date, it is necessary for certain transitional provisions to apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. These transitional provisions should enable the collection of data on a best effort basis for the transparency purposes and provide for an earlier publication of instruments or classes of instruments for which there is not a liquid market and of the thresholds for pre-trade waivers and deferrals to post-trade transparency.
This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the (30)European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission.
ESMA has conducted open public consultations on the draft regulatory technical (31)standards on which this Regulation is based, analysed the potential related costs and benefits and requested the opinion of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group established by Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council3,
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
CHAPTER I
DEFINITIONS
Article 1
3 Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84).
EN 47 EN
Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
‘Exchange for physical’ (EFP) means a transaction in a derivative contract or other (1)financial instrument contingent on the simultaneous execution of an equivalent quantity of an underlying physical asset.
‘Package transaction’ means: (2)
(a) an EFP; or
(b) a transaction involving the execution of two or more: component transactions in financial instruments:
(i) which is executed between two or more counterparties;
(ii) where each component bears meaningful economic or financial risk which is related with all the other components;
(iii) where the execution of each component is simultaneous and contingent upon the execution of all other components.
CHAPTER II
PRE-TRADE TRANSPARENCY FOR REGULATED MARKETS, MULTILATERAL TRADING FACILITIES AND ORGANISED TRADING FACILITIES
Article 2
(Article 8(1) and (2) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Pre-trade transparency obligations
Market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make public the range of bid and offer prices and the depth of trading interest at those prices, in accordance with the type of trading system they operate and the information requirements set out in Annex I.
Article 3
(Article 9(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Size of orders which are large in scale
An order is large in scale compared with normal market size if, at the point of entry or following any amendment, it is equal to or larger than the minimum size of order which shall be determined in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13.
EN 48 EN
Article 4
(Article 9(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Type and minimum size of orders held in an order management facility
1. The type of order held in an order management facility of a trading venue pending disclosure for which pre-trade transparency obligations may be waived is an order which:
(a) is intended to be disclosed to the order book operated by the trading venue and is contingent on objective conditions that are defined in advance by the system’s protocol;
(b) cannot interact with other trading interest prior to disclosure to the order book operated by the trading venue;
(c) once disclosed to the order book it interacts with other orders in accordance with the rules applicable to orders of that kind at the time of disclosure.
2. Orders held in an order management facility of a trading venue pending disclosure for which pre-trade transparency obligations may be waived shall, at the point of entry and following any amendment, have one of the following sizes:
(a) in the case of a reserve order, a size that is greater than or equal to EUR10,000;
(b) for all other orders, a size that is greater than or equal to the minimum tradable quantity set in advance by the system operator under its rules and protocols.
3. A reserve order as referred to in paragraph 2(a) is to be considered a limit order consisting of a disclosed order relating to a portion of the quantity and a non-disclosed order relating to the remainder of the quantity, where the non-disclosed quantity is capable of execution only after its release to the order book as a new disclosed order.
Article 5
(Articles 8(4) and 9(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Size specific to the financial instrument and definitions of request-for-quote and voice-trading systems
1. An actionable indication of interest is above the size specific to the financial instrument if, at the point of entry or following any amendment, it is equal to or larger than the minimum size of an actionable indication of interest which shall be determined in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13.
2. Indicative pre-trade prices for actionable indications of interest that are above the size specific to the financial instrument determined in accordance with paragraph 1 and smaller
EN 49 EN
than the relevant large in scale size determined in accordance with Article 3 shall be considered close to the price of the trading interests if the trading venue makes public any of the following:
(a) the best available price;
(b) a simple average of prices;
(c) an average price weighted on the basis of the volume, price, time or the number of actionable indications of interest.
3. Market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make public the methodology for calculating and the time of publication when entering and updating indicative pre-trade prices.
4. A ‘request-for-quote system’ means a trading system where the following conditions are met:
(a) a quote or quotes by a member or participant are provided in response to a request for a quote submitted by one or more other members or participants;
(b) the quote is executable exclusively by the requesting member or participant;
(c) the requesting member or market participant may conclude a transaction by accepting the quote or quotes provided to it on request.
5. A ‘voice trading system’ means a trading system where transactions between members are arranged through voice negotiation.
Article 6
(Articles 9(1)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
The classess of financial instruments for which there is not a liquid market
A financial instrument or a class of financial instruments shall be considered not to have a liquid market if so specified in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13.
CHAPTER II
POST-TRADE TRANSPARENCY FOR TRADING VENUES AND INVESTMENT FIRMS TRADING OUTSIDE A TRADING VENUE
Article 7
(Articles 10(1) and Article 21(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
EN 50 EN
Post-trade transparency obligations
1. Investment firms trading outside the rules of a trading venue and market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make public by reference to each transaction the details set out in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex II and use each applicable flag listed in Table 3 of Annex II.
2. Where a previously published trade report is cancelled, investment firms trading outside a trading venue and market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make public a new trade report which contains all the details of the original trade report and the cancellation flag as specified in Table 3 of Annex II.
3. Where a previously published trade report is amended, investment firms trading outside a trading venue and market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make the following information public:
(a) a new trade report that contains all the details of the original trade report and the cancellation flag as specified in Table 3 of Annex II;
(b) a new trade report that contains all the details of the original trade report with all necessary details corrected and the amendment flag as specified in Table 3 of Annex II.
4. Post-trade information shall be made available as close to real time as is technically possible and in any case:
(a) within 15 minutes after the execution of the relevant transaction from 3 January 2017 until 1 January 2020;
(b) within 5 minutes after the execution of the relevant transaction after 1 January 2020.
5. Where a transaction between two investment firms is concluded outside the rules of a trading venue, either on own account or on behalf of clients, only the investment firm that sells the financial instrument concerned shall make the transaction public through an APA.
6. By way of derogation to paragraph 5, if only one of the investment firms party to the transaction is a systematic internaliser in the given financial instrument and it is acting as the buying firm, only that firm shall make the transaction public through an APA, informing the seller of the action taken.
7. Investment firms shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the transaction is made public as a single transaction. For that purpose, two matching trades entered at the same time and for the same price with a single party interposed shall be considered to be a single transaction.
8. Information relating to a package transaction shall be made available with respect to each component as close to real-time as is technically possible, having regard to the need to
EN 51 EN
allocate prices to particular financial instruments and including the package transaction flag or the exchange for physicals transaction flag as specified in Table 3 of Annex II. Where the package transaction is eligible for deferred publication, information on all components shall be made available after the deferral period for the transaction has lapsed.
Article 8
(Article 11(1) and (3) and Article 21(4) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Deferred publication of transactions
1. Where a competent authority authorises the deferred publication of the details of transactions, investment firms trading outside a trading venue and market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue shall make public each transaction no later than 19:00 local time on the second working day after the date of the transaction, provided one of the following conditions is satisfied:
(a) The transaction is large in scale compared with the normal market size as specified in Article 9;
(b) The transaction is in a financial instrument or a class of financial instruments for which there is not a liquid market as specified in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13;
(c) The transaction is executed between an investment firm dealing on own account other than on a matched principal basis as per article 4(1)(38) of Directive 2014/65/EU and another counterparty and is above a size specific to the instrument as specified in Article 10;
(d) It is a package transaction which meets one of the following criteria:
(i) one or more of its components are financial instruments which do not have a liquid market;
(ii) one or more of its components are transactions in financial instruments that are large in scale compared with the normal market size as specified in Article 9;
(iii) the transaction is executed between an investment firm dealing on own account other than on a matched principal basis as per Article 4(1)(38) of Directive 2014/65/EU and another counterparty and one or more of its components are transactions in financial instruments that are above the size specific to the instrument as specified in Article 10.
2. When the time limit of deferral set out in paragraph 1 has lapsed, all the details of the transaction on an individual basis shall be published unless an extended or an indefinite time period of deferral is granted in accordance with Article 11.
EN 52 EN
3. Where a transaction between two investment firms, either on own account or on behalf of clients, is executed outside the rules of a trading venue, the relevant competent authority for the purposes of determining the applicable deferral regime shall be the competent authority of the investment firm responsible for making the trade public through an APA in accordance with paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of Article 7.
Article 9
(Article 11(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Size of transactions which are large in scale
A transaction is large in scale compared with normal market size if it is equal to or larger than the minimum size of transaction which shall be determined in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13.
Article 10
(Article 11(1)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
The size specific to the financial instrument
A transaction is above a size specific to the financial instrument if it is equal to or larger than the minimum size of transaction which shall be determined in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13.
Article 11
(Article 11(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Transparency requirements in conjunction with deferred publication at the discretion of the competent authorities
1. Where competent authorities exercise their rights in conjunction with an authorisation of deferred publication pursuant to Article 11(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 the following shall apply:
(a) Where Article 11(3)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies, competent authorities shall request the publication of any of the following information during the full time period of the deferral as set out in Article 8:
(i) all the details of a transaction laid down in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex II with the exception of details relating to volume;
EN 53 EN
(ii) transactions in a daily aggregated form for a minimum number of 5 transactions executed on the same day, to be made public the following working day before 09.00 local time.
(b) Where Article 11(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies, competent authorities shall allow the omission of the publication of the volume of an individual transaction for an extended time period of deferral of four weeks.
(c) In respect of non-equity instruments that are not sovereign debt and where Article 11(3)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies, competent authorities shall allow the aggregation of several transactions executed over the course of one calendar week to be published on the following Tuesday before 09:00 local time for an extended time period of deferral of four weeks.
(d) In respect of sovereign debt instruments and where Article 11(3)(d) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies, competent authorities shall allow the aggregation of several transactions executed over the course of one calendar week to be published on the following Tuesday before 09.00 local time for an indefinite period of time.
2. When the extended time period set out in paragraph 1(b) has lapsed, competent authorities shall request the following information:
(a) in respect of all instruments that are not sovereign debt, the full details of all individual transactions to be published on the next working day before 09.00 local time;
(b) in respect of sovereign debt instruments where competent authorities decide not to use the options provided for in Article 11(3)(b) and (d) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 consecutively pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 11(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, the full details of all individual transactions to be published on the next working day before 09.00 local time;
(c) in respect of sovereign debt instruments, where competent authorities apply the options provided for in Article 11(3)(b) and (d) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 consecutively pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 11(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, several transactions executed in the same calendar week to be published in an aggregated form on the Tuesday following the expiry of the extended period of deferral of four weeks counting from the last day of that calendar week before 09:00 local time.
3. In respect of all instruments that are not sovereign debt, all the details of the transactions on an individual basis shall be published four weeks after the publication of the aggregated details in accordance with paragraph 1(c) before 09:00 local time.
4. The aggregated daily or weekly data referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall contain the following information for bonds, structured finance products, derivatives and emission allowances in respect of each day or week of the calendar period concerned:
EN 54 EN
(a) the weighted average price;
(b) the total volume traded as referred to in Table 4 of Annex II;
(c) the total number of transactions.
5. Transactions shall be aggregated per ISIN-code. Where the ISIN code is not available, transactions shall be aggregated at the level of the class of financial instruments to which the liquidity test is applied.
6. Where the weekday foreseen for the publications set out in points (c) and (d) of paragraph 1, and paragraphs 2 and 3, is not a working day, the publications shall be effected on the following working day before 09:00 local time.
Article 12
(Article 21(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Application of post-trade transparency to certain transactions executed outside a trading venue
The obligation to make public the volume and price of transactions and the time at which they were concluded as set out in Article 21(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall not apply to any of the following:
(a) transactions listed in Article 3(5) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No [RTS 22 on obligation to report transactions];
(b) transactions executed by a management company as defined in Article 2(1)(b) of Directive 2009/65/EC or an alternative investment fund manager as defined in Article 4(1)(b) of Directive 2011/61/EU which transfer the beneficial ownership of financial instruments from one collective investment undertaking to another and where no investment firm is a party to the transaction;
(c) ‘give-up’ or ‘give-in’ defined as a transaction where an investment firm passes a client trade to, or receives a client trade from, another investment firm for the purpose of post-trade processing;
(d) transfers of financial instruments such as collateral in bilateral transactions or in the context of a central counterparty (CCP) margin or collateral requirements or as part of the default management process of a central counterparty.
CHAPTER III
PROVISIONS COMMON TO PRE-TRADE AND POST-TRADE TRANSPARENCY
EN 55 EN
Article 13
(Article 9(1) and (2), Article 11(1) and Article 22(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Methodology to perform the transparency calculations
1. For determining financial instruments or classes of financial instruments for which there is not a liquid market for the purposes of Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodologies shall be applied across asset classes:
(a) Static determination of liquidity for:
(i) the asset class of securitised derivatives as defined in Table 4.1 of Annex III;
(ii) the following sub-asset classes of equity derivatives: stock index options, stock index futures/forwards, stock options, stock futures/forwards, stock dividend options, stock dividend futures/forwards, dividend index options, dividend index futures/forwards, volatility index options, volatility index futures/forwards, ETF options, ETF futures/forwards and other equity derivatives as defined in Table 6.1 of Annex III;
(iii) the asset class of foreign exchange derivatives as defined in Table 8.1 of Annex III;
(iv) the sub-asset classes of other interest rate derivatives, other commodity derivatives, other credit derivatives, other C10 derivatives, other contracts for difference (CFDs), other emission allowances and other emission allowance derivatives as defined in Tables 5.1, 7.1, 9.1, 10.1, 11.1, 12.1 and 13.1 of Annex III.
(b) Periodic assessment based on quantitative and, where applicable, qualitative liquidity criteria for:
(i) all bond types except ETCs and ETNs as defined in Table 2.1 of Annex III;
(ii) ETC and ETN bond types as defined in Table 2.4 of Annex III;
(iii) the asset-class of interest rate derivatives except the sub-asset class of other interest rate derivatives as defined in Table 5.1of Annex III;
(iv) the following sub-asset classes of equity derivatives: swaps and portfolio swaps as defined in Table 6.1 of Annex III;
(v) the asset-class of commodity derivatives except the sub-asset class of other commodity derivatives as defined in Table 7.1 of Annex III;
(vi) the following sub-asset classes of credit derivatives: index credit default swaps and single name credit default swaps as defined in Table 9.1 of Annex III;
EN 56 EN
(vii) the asset-class of C10 derivatives except the sub-asset class of other C10 derivatives as defined in Table 10.1 of Annex III;
(viii) the following sub-asset classes of contracts for difference (CFDs): currency CFDs and commodity CFDs as defined in Table 11.1 of Annex III;
(ix) the asset-class of emission allowances except the sub-asset class of other emission allowances as defined in Table 12.1 of Annex III;
(x) the asset-class of emission allowance derivatives except the sub-asset class of other emission allowance derivatives as defined in Table 13.1 of Annex III.
(c) Periodic assessment based on qualitative liquidity criteria for:
(i) the following sub-asset classes of credit derivatives: CDS index options and single name CDS options as defined in Table 9.1 of Annex III;
(ii) the following sub-asset classes of contracts for difference (CFDs): equity CFDs, bond CFDs, CFDs on an equity future/forward and CFDs on an equity option as defined in Table 11.1 of Annex III.
(d) Periodic assessment based on a two tests procedure for structured finance products as defined in Table 3.1 of Annex III.
2. For determining the size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Article 5 and the size of orders large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Article 3, the following methodologies shall be applied:
(a) the threshold value for:
(i) ETC and ETN bond types as defined in Table 2.5 of Annex III;
(ii) the asset class of securitised derivatives as defined in Table 4.2 of Annex III;
(iii) each sub-class of equity derivatives as defined in Tables 6.2 and 6.3 of Annex III;
(iv) each sub-class of foreign exchange derivatives as defined in Table 8.2 of Annex III;
(v) each sub-class considered not to have a liquid market for the asset classes of interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, credit derivatives, C10 derivatives and contracts for difference (CFDs) as defined in Tables 5.3, 7.3, 9.3, 10.3 and 11.3 of Annex III;
EN 57 EN
(vi) each sub-asset class considered not to have a liquid market for the asset classes of emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives as defined in Tables 12.3 and 13.3 of Annex III;
(vii) each structured finance product where Test-1 under paragraph 1(d) is not passed as defined in Table 3.2 of Annex III;
(viii) each structured finance product considered not to have a liquid market where only Test-1 under paragraph 1(d) is passed as defined in Table 3.3 of Annex III.
(b) the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile for each bond type, except ETCs and ETNs, as defined in Table 2.3 of Annex III.
(c) the greater of the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile and the threshold floor for:
(i) each sub-class having a liquid market for the asset classes of interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, credit derivatives, C10 derivatives and CFDs as defined in Tables 5.2, 7.2, 9.2, 10.2 and 11.2 of Annex III;
(ii) each sub-asset class having a liquid market for the asset classes of emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives as defined in Tables 12.2 and 13.2 of Annex III;
(iii) each structured finance product considered to have a liquid market where Test-1 and Test-2 under paragraph 1(d) are passed as defined in Table 3.3 of Annex III.
3. For the determination of the size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Article 8(1)(c) and the size of transactions large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Article 8(1)(a), the following methodologies shall be applied:
(a) The threshold value for:
(i) ETC and ETN bond types as defined in Table 2.5 of Annex III;
(ii) the asset class of securitised derivatives as defined in Table 4.2 of Annex III;
(iii) each sub-class of equity derivatives as defined in Tables 6.2 and 6.3 of Annex III;
(iv) each sub-class of foreign exchange derivatives as defined in Table 8.2 of Annex III;
(v) each sub-class considered not to have a liquid market for the asset classes of interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, credit derivatives, C10
EN 58 EN
derivatives and contracts for difference (CFDs) as defined in Tables 5.3, 7.3, 9.3, 10.3, 11.3 of Annex III;
(vi) each sub-asset class considered not to have a liquid market for the asset class of emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives as defined in Tables 12.3 and 13.3 of Annex III;
(vii) each structured finance product where Test-1 under paragraph 1(d) is not passed as defined in Table 3.2 of Annex III;
(viii) each structured finance product considered not to have a liquid market where only Test-1 under paragraph 1(d) is passed as defined in Table 3.3 of Annex III.
(b) the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile for each bond type, except ETCs and ETNs, as defined in Table 2.3 of Annex III;
(c) the greatest of the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile, the trade size below which lies the percentage of volume corresponding to the volume percentile and the threshold floor for:
(i) each sub-class considered to have a liquid market for the asset classes of interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, credit derivatives, C10 derivatives and CFDs as provided in Tables 5.2, 7.2, 9.2, 10.2 and 11.2 of Annex III.
(d) the greater of the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile and the threshold floor for:
(i) each sub-asset class considered to have a liquid market for the asset classes of emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives as provided in Tables 12.2 and 13.2 of Annex III;
(ii) each structured finance product considered to have a liquid market where the Test-1 and Test-2 under paragraph 1(d) are passed as defined in Table 3.3 of Annex III.
4. For the purpose of paragraph 3(c) where the trade size corresponding to the volume percentile for the determination of the transaction that is large in scale compared with normal market size is higher than the 97.5 trade percentile, the trade volume shall not be taken into consideration and the size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Article 8(1)(c) and the size of transactions large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Article 8(1)(a) shall be determined as the greater of the trade size below which lies the percentage of the transactions corresponding to the trade percentile and the threshold floor.
EN 59 EN
5. In accordance with Regulation (EU) No [RTS on Art 22 and DVC] competent authorities shall collect on a daily basis the data from trading venues, APAs and CTPs which is necessary to perform the calculations to determine:
(a) the financial instruments and classes of financial instruments not having a liquid market as set out in paragraph 1;
(b) the sizes large in scale compared to normal market size and the size specific to the instrument as set out in paragraphs 2 and 3.
6. Competent authorities for performing the calculations for a class of financial instruments shall establish cooperation arrangements between each other as to ensure the aggregation of the data across the Union necessary for the calculations.
7. For the purpose of paragraphs 1(b) and (d), 2(b) and (c) and 3(b), (c) and (d), competent authorities shall take into account transactions executed in the Union between 1 January and 31 December of the preceding year.
8. The trade size for the purpose of paragraphs 2(b) and (c) and 3(b), (c) and (d) shall be determined according to the measure of volume as defined in Table 4 of Annex II. Whenever, the trade size defined for the purpose of paragraphs 2 and 3 is expressed in monetary value and the financial instrument is not denominated in Euros, the trade size shall be converted to the currency in which that financial instrument is denominated by applying the European Central Bank Euro foreign exchange reference rate as of 31 December of the preceding year.
9. Market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue may convert the trade sizes determined according to paragraphs 2 and 3 to the corresponding number of lots as defined in advance by that trading venue for the respective sub-class or sub-asset class. Market operators and investment firms operating a trading venue may maintain such trade sizes until application of the results of the next calculations performed in accordance to paragraph 17.
10. The calculations referred to in paragraphs 2(b) and 3(b) shall exclude transactions with a size equal to or smaller than EUR 100,000.
11. For the purpose of the determinations referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of paragraph 2 and sub-paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 3 shall not apply whenever the number of transactions considered for calculations is smaller than 1000 and the following thresholds shall be applied:
(a) EUR 100,000 for all bond types except ETCs and ETNs;
(b) the threshold floors defined in paragraphs 2(a) and 3(a) for all financial instruments not covered in sub-paragraph (a).
EN 60 EN
12. The calculations referred to in paragraphs 2(b) and (c) and 3(b), (c) and (d) shall be rounded up to the next:
(a) 100,000 if the threshold value is smaller than 1 million;
(b) 500,000 if the threshold value is equal to or greater than 1 million but smaller than 10 million;
(c) 5 million if the threshold value is equal to or greater than 10 million but smaller than 100 million;
(d) 25 million if the threshold value is equal to or greater than 100 million.
13. For the purpose of paragraph 1, the quantitative liquidity criteria specified for each asset class in Annex III shall be determined according to Section 1 of Annex III of this Regulation.
14. For equity derivatives that are admitted to trading or first traded on a trading venue, that do not belong to a sub-class for which the size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Articles 5 and 8(1)(c) and the size of orders and transactions large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Articles 3 and 8(1)(a) have been published and which belong to one of the sub-asset classes specified in paragraph 1(a)(ii), the size specific to the financial instrument and the size of orders and transactions large in scale compared with normal market size shall be those applicable to the smallest average daily notional amount (ADNA) band of the sub-asset class to which the equity derivative belongs.
15. Financial instruments admitted to trading or first traded on a trading venue which do not belong to any sub-class for which the size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Articles 5 and 8(1)(c) and the size of orders and transactions large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Articles 3 and 8(1)(a) have been published shall be considered not to have a liquid market until application of the results of the calculations performed in accordance to paragraph 17. The applicable size specific to the financial instrument referred to in Articles 5 and 8(1)(c) and the size of orders and transactions large in scale compared with normal market size referred to in Articles 3 and 8(1)(a) shall be those of the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market belonging to the same sub-asset class.
16. After the end of the trading day but before the end of the day, trading venues shall submit to competent authorities the details included in Annex IV for performing the calculations referred to in paragraph 5 whenever the financial instrument is admitted to trading or first traded on that trading venue or whenever the details previously provided have changed.
17. Competent authorities shall ensure the publication of the results of the calculations referred to under paragraph 5 for each financial instrument and class of financial instrument by 30 April 2018 and by 30 April of each year thereafter. The results of the calculations shall apply from 1 June following publication.
EN 61 EN
18. By derogation of paragraphs 7, 15 and 17, for the purpose of the calculations in paragraph 1(b)(i) competent authorities shall, in respect of bonds, except for ETCs and ETNs, ensure the publication of the calculations referred to under paragraph 5(a) on a quarterly basis, on the first day of February, May, August and November. The calculations shall include transactions executed in the Union during the preceding calendar quarter and shall apply for the 3-month period starting on the sixteenth day of February, May, August and November.
Bonds, except for ETCs and ETNs, that are admitted to trading or first traded on a trading venue during the first two months of a quarter shall be considered to have a liquid market as specified in Table 2.2 of Annex III until the application of the results of the calculation of the calendar quarter.
Bonds, except for ETCs and ETNs, that are admitted to trading or first traded on a trading venue during the last month of a quarter shall be considered to have a liquid market as specified in Table 2.2 of Annex III until the application of the results of the calculation of the following calendar quarter.
Article 14
(Article 1(6) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Transactions to which the exemption in Article 1(6) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall apply
A transaction shall be considered to be entered into by a member of the ESCB in performance of monetary, foreign exchange and financial stability policy if that transaction meets any of the following requirements:
(a) it is carried out for the purposes of monetary policy, including an operation carried out in accordance with Articles 18 and 20 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank annexed to the Treaty on European Union or an operation carried out under equivalent national provisions for members of the ESCB in Member States whose currency is not the euro;
(b) it is a foreign-exchange operation, including operations carried out to hold or manage official foreign reserves of the Member States or the reserve management service provided by a member of the ESCB to central banks in other countries to which the exemption has been extended in accordance with Article 1(9) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014;
(c) it is carried out for the purposes of financial stability policy.
Article 15
(Article 1(7) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
EN 62 EN
Transactions to which the exemption in Article 1(6) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall not apply
A transaction entered into by a member of the ESCB for the performance of an investment operation that is unconnected with that member's performance of one of the tasks referred to in Article 14 shall not be covered by the exemption pursuant to Article 1(6) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. For this purpose, transactions for the performance of investment operations shall include transactions entered into:
(a) for the management of its own funds;
(b) for administrative purposes or for the staff of the member of the ESCB which include transactions conducted in the capacity as administrator of a pension scheme for its staff;
(c) for its investment portfolio pursuant to obligations under national law.
Article 16
(Article 9(5)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014)
Temporary suspension of transparency obligations
1. For financial instruments for which there is a liquid market in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13, a competent authority may temporarily suspend the obligations referred to in Articles 8 and 10 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 when for a class of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances or derivatives, the total volume as defined in Table 4 of Annex II calculated for the previous 30 calendar days represents less than 40% of the average monthly volume calculated for the 12 full calendar months preceding those 30 calendar days.
2. For financial instruments for which there is not a liquid market in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 13, a competent authority may temporarily suspend the obligations referred to in Articles 8 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 when for a class of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances or derivatives, the total volume as defined in Table 4 of Annex II calculated for the previous 30 calendar days represents less than 20% of the average monthly volume calculated for the 12 full calendar months preceding those 30 calendar days.
3. To perform the calculations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, competent authorities shall take into account the transactions executed on all venues in the Union for the class of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances or derivatives concerned. The calculations shall be performed at the level of the class of financial instruments to which a liquidity test is applied.
EN 63 EN
4. Before competent authorities decide to suspend transparency obligations, they shall ensure that the significant decline in liquidity across all venues is not the result of seasonal effects of the relevant class of financial instruments on liquidity.
Article 17
Transitional provisions
1. By 3 July 2016, competent authorities shall collect the necessary data, calculate and ensure the first publication of the details referred to in paragraph 5 (a) and (b) of Article 13.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1:
(a) The calculations shall be based on the reference period 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015;
(b) The information in the first publication shall apply from 3 January 2017 to 31 May 2018.
3. By derogation to paragraph 1, for all bonds, except ETCs and ETNs, competent authorities shall ensure the first publication of the results of the transparency calculations specified in Article 1(b)(i) by 1 December 2016, based on the reference period 1 August 2016 to 31 October 2016. The results of the calculations shall apply from 3 January 2017 to 15 May 2017.
4. Bonds, except for ETCs and ETNs, which are admitted to trading or first traded on a trading venue in the period from 1 October 2016 until 2 January 2017 shall be considered not to have a liquid market as set out in Table 2.2 of Annex III until 15 May 2017.
Article 18
Entry into force and application
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 3 January 2017, except
(a) Article 17 which shall apply immediately following the entry of force of this Regulation;
(b) Paragraphs 7, 17 and 18 of Article 13 which shall apply from 1 January 2018.
EN 64 EN
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels,
For the Commission
The President
[For the Commission
On behalf of the President
[Position]
EN 65 EN
Annex I: Description of the type of system and the related information to be made public in accordance with Article 2
Table 1
Information to be made public in accordance with Article 2
Type of system
Description of system
Information to be made public
Continuous auction order book trading system
A system that by means of an order book and a trading algorithm operated without human intervention matches sell orders with buy orders on the basis of the best available price on a continuous basis.
For each financial instrument, the aggregate number of orders and the volume they represent at each price level, for at least the five best bid and offer price levels.
Quote-driven trading system
A system where transactions are concluded on the basis of firm quotes that are continuously made available to participants, which requires the market makers to maintain quotes in a size that balances the needs of members and participants to deal in a commercial size and the risk to which the market maker exposes itself.
For each financial instrument, the best bid and offer by price of each market maker in that instrument, together with the volumes attaching to those prices.
The quotes made public shall be those that represent binding commitments to buy and sell the financial instruments and which indicate the price and volume of financial instruments in which the registered market makers are prepared to buy or sell. In exceptional market conditions, however, indicative or one-way prices may be allowed for a limited time.
Periodic auction trading system
A system that matches orders on the basis of a periodic auction and a trading algorithm operated without human intervention.
For each financial instrument, the price at which the auction trading system would best satisfy its trading algorithm and the volume that would potentially be executable at that price by participants in that system.
Request-for-quote trading system
A trading system where a quote or quotes are provided in response to a request for a quote submitted by one or more other members or participants. The quote is executable exclusively by the requesting member or market participant. The requesting member or participant may conclude a transaction by accepting the quote or quotes provided to it on request.
The quotes and the attaching volumes from any member or participant which, if accepted, would lead to a transaction under the system’s rules. All submitted quotes in response to a request for quote may be published at the same time but not later than when they become executable.
Voice trading system
A trading system where transactions between members are arranged through voice negotiation.
The bids and offers and the attaching volumes from any member or participant which, if accepted, would lead to a transaction under the system’s rules
Trading system not covered by first 5 rows
A hybrid system falling into two or more of the first five rows or a system where the price determination process is of a different nature than that applicable to the types of system covered by first five rows.
Adequate information as to the level of orders or quotes and of trading interest; in particular, the five best bid and offer price levels and/or two-way quotes of each market maker in the instrument, if the characteristics of the price discovery mechanism so permit.
EN 66 EN
Annex II: Details of transactions to be made available to the public
Table 1
Symbol table for Table 2 SYMBOL DATA TYPE DEFINITION
{ALPHANUM-n}
Up to n alphanumerical characters
Free text field.
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
3 alphanumerical characters
3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency codes
{DATE_TIME_FORMAT}
ISO 8601 date and time format
Date and time in the following format: YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.ddddddZ.
Where ‘:
- ‘YYYY’ is the year;
- ‘MM’ is the month;
- ‘DD’ is the day;
- ‘T’ – means that the letter ‘T’ shall be used
- ‘hh’ is the hour;
- ‘mm’ is the minute;
- ‘ss.dddddd’ is the second and its fraction of a second;
- Z is UTC time.
Dates and times shall be reported in UTC.
{DECIMAL-n/m}
Decimal number of up to n digits in total of which up to m digits can be fraction digits
Numerical field for both positive and negative values: - deecimal separator is '.' (full stop);
- negative numbers are prefixed with '-' (minus).
Where applicable, values shall be rounded and not truncated.
{ISIN}
12 alphanumerical characters
ISIN code, as defined in ISO 6166
{MIC}
4 alphanumerical characters
Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383
Table 2
List of details for the purpose of post-trade transparency
Details
Financial instruments
Description/Details to be published
Type of execution/publication venue
Format to be populated as defined in Table 1
Trading date and time
For all financial instruments,
Date and time when the transaction was executed.
For transactions executed on a trading venue, the level of granularity shall be in accordance with the requirements set out in Article 3 of [RTS 25 on clock synchronization under article 50 of Directive 2014/65/EU].
For transactions not executed on a trading venue, the date and time shall be when the parties agree the
Regulated Market (RM), Multilateral Trading Facility ( MTF) ,Organised Trading Facility (OTF)
Approved Publication Arrangement (APA)
Consolidated tape provider (CTP)
{DATE_TIME_FORMAT}
EN 67 EN
content of the following fields: quantity, price, currencies (in fields 31, 34 and 40 as specified in Table 2 of Annex I of [RTS Transaction Reporting], instrument identification code, instrument classification and underlying instrument code, where applicable. For transactions not executed on a trading venue the time reported shall be granular to at least the nearest second.
Where the transaction results from an order transmitted by the executing firm on behalf of a client to a third party where the conditions for transmission set out in Article 5 of [RTS Transaction Reporting] were not satisfied, this shall be the date and time of the transaction rather than the time of the order transmission.
Instrument identification code type
For all financial instruments,
Code type used to identify the financial instrument
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
‘ISIN’ = ISIN-code, where ISIN is available
‘OTHR’ = other identifier
Instrument identification code
For all financial instruments,
Code used to identify the financial instrument
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{ISIN}
Where Instrument identification code is not an ISIN, an identifier that identifies the derivative instrument based on the fields 3 to 5 and 10 to 40 as specified in Annex IV and fields 13 and 24 to 48 as specified in the Annex of [RTS on reference data] and the grouping of derivative instruments as set out in Annex III.
Price
For all financial instruments,
Traded price of the transaction excluding, where applicable, commission and accrued interest.
In the case of option contracts, it shall be the premium of the derivative contract per underlying security or index point.
In the case of spread bets it shall be the reference price of the underlying instrument.
For credit default swaps (CDS) it shall be the coupon in basis points.
Where price is reported in monetary terms, it shall be provided in the major currency unit.
Where price is currently not available but pending, the value should be ’PNDG’.
Where price is not applicable the field shall not be populated.
The information reported in this field shall be consistent with the value provided in field Quantity.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the price is expressed as monetary value
{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price is expressed as percentage or yield
’PNDG’ in case the price is not available
Venue of execution
For all financial instruments,
Identification of the venue where the transaction was executed.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
{MIC} –trading venues
EN 68 EN
Use the ISO 10383 segment MIC for transactions executed on a trading venue. Where the segment MIC does not exist, use the operating MIC.
Use MIC code ‘XOFF’ for financial instruments admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue, where the transaction on that financial instrument is not executed on a trading venue or systematic internaliser or organised trading platform outside of the Union.
Use SINT for financial instrument submitted to trading or traded on a trading venue, where the transaction on that financial instrument is executed on a Systematic Internaliser.
CTP
‘SINT’ – systematic internaliser
Price notation
For all financial instruments
Indication as to whether the price and the strike price is expressed in monetary value, in percentage or in yield
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
‘MONE’ – Monetary value:
‘PERC’ – Percentage:
‘YIEL’ – Yield:
Price Currency
For all financial instruments
Currency in which the price is expressed (applicable if the price is expressed as monetary value)
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
Notation of the quantity in measurement unit
For commodity derivatives, emission allowance derivatives and emission allowances except in the cases described under Article 11(1) letters (a) and (b) of this Regulation.
Indication of measurement units in which the quantity in measurement unit is expressed
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
’TOCD’ – tons of carbon dioxide
Or
{ALPHANUM-25} otherwise
Quantity in measurement unit
For commodity derivatives, emission allowance derivatives and emission allowances except in the cases described under Article 11(1) letters (a) and (b) of this Regulation.
The equivalent amount of commodity traded expressed in measurement unit
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{DECIMAL-18/17}
Quantity
For all financial instruments except in the cases described under Article 11(1) letters (a) and (b) of this Regulation.
The number of units of the financial instrument, or the number of derivative contracts in the transaction.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{DECIMAL-18/17}
Notional amount
For all financial instruments except in the cases described under Article 11(1) letters (a) and (b) of this Regulation.
Nominal amount or notional amount
For spread bets, the notional amount shall be the monetary value wagered per point movement in the underlying financial instrument.
For credit default swaps, it shall be the notional amount for which the protection is acquired or disposed of.
The information reported in this field shall be consistent with the value provided in field Price
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{DECIMAL-18/5}
EN 69 EN
Notional currency
For all financial instruments except in the cases described under Article 11(1) letters (a) and (b) of the Regulation.
Currency in which the notional is denominated
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
Reference period
For emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives only
This field is only applicable for emission allowances.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
The period specified in the Directive 2003/87/CE (e.g. 2013-2020 or subsequent trading periods)
Type
For emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives only
This field is only applicable for emission allowances.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
'EUAE' – EUA
'CERE' - CER
'ERUE' - ERU
‘EUAA’ - EUAA
Publication Date and Time
For all financial instruments
Date and time when the transaction was published by a trading venue or APA.
For transactions executed on a trading venue, the level of granularity shall be in accordance with the requirements set out in Article 3 of [RTS 25 on clock synchronization under article 50 of Directive 2014/65/EU].
For transactions not executed on a trading venue, the date and time shall be when the parties agree the content of the following fields: quantity, price, currencies in fields 31,34 and 44 as specified in Table 1b of Annex 1 of [RTS Transaction Reporting], instrument identification code, instrument classification and underlying instrument code, where applicable. For transactions not executed on a trading venue the time reported shall be granular to at least the nearest second.
Where the transaction results from an order transmitted by the executing firm on behalf of a client to a third party where the conditions for transmission set out in Article 5 of [RTS Transaction Reporting] were not satisfied, this shall be the date and time of the transaction rather than the time of the order transmission.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{DATE_TIME_FORMAT}
Venue of publication
For all financial instruments
Code used to identify the trading venue and APA publishing the transaction.
CTP
Trading venue: {MIC}
APA: {MIC} where available. Otherwise, 4 character code as published in the list of data reporting services providers on ESMA’s website.
Transaction Identification Code
For all financial instruments
Alphanumerical code assigned by trading venues (pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation (EU) on the maintenance of relevant data relating to orders in financial instruments under Article 25 of MiFIR) and APAs and used in any subsequent
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
{ALPHANUMERICAL-52}
EN 70 EN
reference to the specific trade.
The transaction identification code shall be unique, consistent and persistent per ISO10383 segment MIC and per trading day. Where the trading venue does not use segment MICs, the transaction identification code shall be unique, consistent and persistent per operating MIC per trading day.
Where the APA does not use MICs, it should be unique, consistent and persistent per 4-character code used to identify the APA per trading day.
The components of the transaction identification code shall not disclose the identity of the counterparties to the transaction for which the code is maintained
Transaction to be cleared
For derivatives
Code to identify whether the transaction will be cleared.
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
‘true’ - transaction to be cleared
‘false’ - transaction not to be cleared
EN 71 EN
Table 3
List of flags for the purpose of post-trade transparency
Flag
Name of Flag
Type of execution/publication venue
Description
‘BENC’
Benchmark transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
All kinds of volume weighted average price transactions and all other trades where the price is calculated over multiple time instances according to a given benchmark.
‘ACTX’
Agency cross transaction flag
APA
CTP
Transactions where an investment firm has brought together two clients’ orders with the purchase and the sale conducted as one transaction and involving the same volume and price.
‘NPFT’
Non-price forming transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
CTP
All types of transactions listed under Article 11 of this Regulation and which do not contribute to the price formation.
‘LRGS’
Post-trade LIS transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transactions executed under the post-trade large in scale deferral.
‘ILQD’
Illiquid instrument transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transactions executed under the deferral for instruments for which there is not a liquid market.
‘SIZE’
Post-trade SSTI transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transactions executed under the post-trade size specific to the instrument deferral.
‘TPAC’
Package transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Package transactions which are not exchange for physicals as defined in Article 1.
‘XFPH’
Exchange for physicals transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Exchange for physicals as defined in Article 1
‘CANC’
Cancellation flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
When a previously published transaction is cancelled.
‘AMND’
Amendment flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
When a previously published transaction is amended.
SUPPLEMENTARY DEFERRAL FLAGS
Article 11(1)(a)(i).
‘LMTF’
Limited details flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
First report with publication of limited details in accordance with Article 11(1)(a)(i).
‘FULF’
Full details flag
Transaction for which limited details have been previously published in accordance with Article 11(1)(a)(i).
Article 11(1)(a)(ii).
‘DATF’
Daily aggregated transaction flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Publication of daily aggregated transaction in accordance with Article 11(1)(a)(ii).
‘FULA’
Full details flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Individual transactions for which aggregated details have been previously published in accordance with Article 11(1)(a)(ii).
EN 72 EN
Article 11(1)(b)
‘VOLO’
Volume omission flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transaction for which limited details are published in accordance with Article 11(1)(b).
‘FULV’
Full details flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transaction for which limited details have been previously published in accordance with Article 11(1)(b)
Article 11(1)(c
‘FWAF’
Four weeks aggregation flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Publication of aggregated transactions in accordance with Article 11(1)(c).
‘FULJ’
Full details flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Individual transactions which have previously benefited from aggregated publication in accordance with Article 11(1)(c).
Article 11(1)(d)
‘IDAF’
Indefinite aggregation flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transactions for which the publication of several transactions in aggregated form for an indefinite period of time has been allowed in accordance with Article 11(1)(d).
Consecutive use of Article 11(1)(b) and Article 11(2)(c) for sovereign debt instruments
‘VOLW’
Volume omission flag
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transaction for which limited are published in accordance with Article 11(1)(b) and for which the publication of several transactions in aggregated form for an indefinite period of time will be consecutively allowed in accordance with Article 11(2)(c).
‘COAF’
Consecutive aggregation flag (post volume omission for sovereign debt instruments)
RM, MTF, OTF
APA
CTP
Transactions for which limited details have been previously published in accordance with Article 11(1)(b) and for which the publication of several transactions in aggregated form for an indefinite period of time has consecutively been allowed in accordance with Article 11(2)(c).
EN 73 EN
Table 4
Measure of volume
Type of instrument
Volume
All bonds except ETCs and ETNs and structured finance products
Total nominal value of debt instruments traded
ETCs and ETNs bond types
Number of units traded * price per unit
Securitised derivatives
Number of units traded * price per unit
Interest rate derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Foreign Exchange Derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Equity derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Commodity derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Credit derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Contract for differences
Notional amount of traded contracts
C10 derivatives
Notional amount of traded contracts
Emission allowance derivatives
Tons of Carbon Dioxide
Emission allowances
Tons of Carbon Dioxide
EN 74 EN
Annex III: Liquidity assessment, LIS and SSTI thresholds for non-equity financial instruments
1. Instructions for the purpose of this annex
1. A reference to an ‘asset class’ means a reference to the following classes of financial instruments: bonds, structured finance products, securitised derivatives, interest rate derivatives, equity derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives, credit derivatives, C10 derivatives, CFDs, emission allowances and emission allowance derivatives.
2. A reference to a ‘sub-asset class’ means a reference to an asset class segmented to a more granular level on the basis of the contract type and/or the type of underlying.
3. A reference to a ‘sub-class’ means a reference to a sub-asset class segmented to a more granular level on basis of further qualitative segmentation criteria as set out in Tables 2.1 to 13.3 of this Annex.
4. ‘Average daily turnover (ADT)’ means the total turnover for a particular financial instrument determined according to the volume measure set out in Table 4 of Annex II and executed in the period set out in Article 13(7), divided by the number of trading days in that period or, where applicable, that part of the year during which the financial instrument was admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue and was not suspended from trading.
5. ‘Average daily notional amount (ADNA)’ means the total notional amount for a particular financial instrument determined according to the volume measure set out in Table 4 of Annex II and executed in the period set out in Article 13(18) for all bonds except ETCs and ETNs and in Article 13(7) for all the other financial instruments, divided by the number of trading days in that period or, where applicable, that part of the year during which the financial instrument was admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue and was not suspended from trading.
6. ‘Percentage of days traded over the period considered’ means the number of days in the period set out in Article 13(18) for all bonds except ETCs and ETNs and in Article 13(7) for structured finance products, on which at least one transaction has been executed for that financial instrument, divided by the number of trading days in that period or, where applicable, that part of the year during which the financial instrument was admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue and was not suspended from trading.
EN 75 EN
7. ‘Average daily number of trades’ means the total number of transactions executed for a particular financial instrument in the period set out in Article 13(18) for all bonds except ETCs and ETN and in Article 13(7) all the other financial instruments, divided by the number of trading days in that period or, where applicable, that part of the year during which the financial instrument was admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue and was not suspended from trading.
8. ‘Future’ means a contract to buy or sell a commodity or financial instrument in a designated future date at a price agreed upon at the initiation of the contract by the buyer and seller. Every futures contract has standard terms that dictate the minimum quantity and quality that can be bought or sold, the smallest amount by which the price may change, delivery procedures, maturity date and other characteristics related to the contract.
9. ‘Option’ means a contract that gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy (call) or sell (put) a specific financial instrument or commodity at a predetermined price, strike or exercise price, at or up to a certain future date or exercise date.
10. ‘Swap’ means a contract in which two parties agree to exchange cash flows in one financial instrument for another at a certain future date.
11. ‘Portfolio Swap’ means a contract by which end-users can trade multiple swaps.
12. ‘Forward’ or ‘Forward agreement’ means a private agreement between two parties to buy or sell a commodity or financial instrument at a designated future date at a price agreed upon at the initiation of the contract by the buyer and seller.
13. ‘Swaption’ means a contract that gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to enter a swap at or up to a certain future date or exercise date.
14. ‘Future on a swap’ means a future contract that gives the owner the obligation, to enter a swap at or up to a certain future date.
15. ‘Forward on a swap’ means a forward contract that gives the owner the obligation, to enter a swap at or up to a certain future date.
EN 76 EN
2. Bonds
Table 2.1
Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs) - classes not having a liquid market
Average daily notional amount[quantitative liquidity criteria 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criteria 2]Percentage of days traded over the period considered[quantitative liquidity criteria 3]EUR 100,000280%Asset class - Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs)Each individual financial instrument shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria on a cumulative basis
EN 77 EN
Table 2.2
Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs) - classes not having a liquid market
Bond TypeSovereign Bondmeans a bond issued by a sovereign issuer which is either:(a) the Union; (b) a Member State including a government department, an agency or a special purpose vehicle of a Member State;(c) a sovereign entity which is not listed under points (a) and (b).smaller than €1,000,000,000 Other Public Bondmeans a bond issued by any of the following public issuers:(a) in the case of a federal Member State, a member of that federation; (b) a special purpose vehicle for several Member States; (c) an international financial institution established by two or more Member States which have the purpose of mobilising funding and providing financial assistance to the benefit of its members that are experiencing or are threatened by severe financial problems;(d) the European Investment Bank;smaller than €500,000,000 Convertible Bondmeans an instrument consisting of a bond or a securitised debt instrument with an embedded derivative, such as an option to buy the underlying equitysmaller than €500,000,000 Covered Bondmeans bonds as referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/ECsmaller than €500,000,000 Corporate Bondmeans a bond that is issued by a Societas Europaea established in accordance with Directive 2001/2157/EC or a type of company listed in Article 1 of Directive 2009/101/EC or equivalent in third countriessmaller than €500,000,000 Bond TypeOther BondFor the purpose of the determination of the financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Article 13(18), the following methodology shall be appliedA bond that does not belong to any of the above bond types is considered not to have a liquid marketAsset class - Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs)Each individual bond shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Article13(18) if it is characterised by a specific combination of bond type and issuance size as specified in each row of the tableIssuance size
EN 78 EN
Table 2.3
Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs) - pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeTrade - percentileTrade - percentileTrade - percentileTrade - percentileSovereign Bondtransactions executed on Sovereign Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)60708090Other Public Bondtransactions executed on Other Public Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)60708090Convertible Bondtransactions executed on Convertible Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)60708090Covered Bondtransactions executed on Covered Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)40708090Corporate Bondtransactions executed on Corporate Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)60708090Other Bondstransactions executed on Other Bonds following the exclusion of transactions as specified in Article 13(10)60708090Asset class - Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs)Transactions to be considered for the calculation of the thresholds per bond typePercentiles to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each bond typeBond Type
EN 79 EN
Table 2.4
Bonds (ETC and ETN bond types) - classes not having a liquid market
Average daily turnover (ADT)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Exchange Traded Commodities (ETCs)a debt instrument issued against a direct investment by the issuer in commodities or commodities derivative contracts. The price of an ETC is directly or indirectly linked to the performance of the underlying. An ETC passively tracks the performance of the commodity or commodity indices to which it refers. EUR 500,00010Exchange Traded Notes (ETNs)a debt instrument issued against a direct investment by the issuer in the underlying or underlying derivative contracts. The price of an ETN is directly or indirectly linked to the performance of the underlying. An ETN passively tracks the performance of the underlying to which it refers.EUR 500,00010Asset class - Bonds (ETC and ETN bond types)Bond typeEach individual financial instrument shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria
EN 80 EN
Table 2.5
Bonds (ETC and ETN bond types) - pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueETCsEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 50,000,000EUR 50,000,000ETNsEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 50,000,000EUR 50,000,000SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueETCsEUR 900,000EUR 900,000EUR 45,000,000EUR 45,000,000ETNsEUR 900,000EUR 900,000EUR 45,000,000EUR 45,000,000Asset class - Bonds (ETC and ETN bond types)Bond typeBond typePre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each individual instrument determined to have a liquid marketPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each individual instrument determined not to have a liquid market
EN 81 EN
3. Structured Finance Products (SFPs)
Table 3.1
SFPs - classes not having a liquid market
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Transactions executed in all SFPsEUR 300,000,000500Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Percentage of days traded over the period considered[quantitative liquidity criteria 3]EUR 100,000280%Test 2 - SFPs not having a liquid marketIf the values related to the quantitative liquidity criteria are both above the quantitative liquidity thresholds set for the purpose of the SFPs asset-class assessment, then Test 1 is passed and Test-2 shall be performed. Each individual financial instrument shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaAsset class - Structured Finance Products (SFPs)Test 1 - SFPs asset-class assessmentSFPs asset-class assessment for the purpose of the determination of the financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)The SFPs asset-class shall be assessed by application of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the values related to the quantitative liquidity criteria for the purpose of the SFPs asset-class assessment
EN 82 EN
Table 3.2
SFPs - pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds if Test 1 is not passed
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueEUR 100,000EUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 1,000,000Asset class - Structured Finance Products (SFPs)Pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for all SFPs if Test 1 is not passed
EN 83 EN
Table 3.3
SFPs - pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds if Test 1 is passed
Trade - percenti le Threshold floor Trade - percenti le Threshold floor Trade - percenti le Threshold floor Trade - percenti le Threshold floor
Transact ions executed in all SFPs determined
to have a liquid market
60 EUR 100,000 70 EUR 250,000 80 EUR 500,000 90 EUR 1,000,000
LIS post-trade
Transactions to be considered for the
calculation of the thresholds
Percenti les and threshold floors to be appl ied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for SFPs determined to have a l iquid market if
Test 1 is passed
SSTI pre-trade LIS pre-trade SSTI post-trade
Asset class - Structured Finance Products (SFPs)
SSTI pre-trade LIS pre-trade SSTI post-trade LIS post-trade
Threshold value Threshold value Threshold value Threshold value
EUR 100,000 EUR 250,000 EUR 500,000 EUR 1,000,000
Pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for SFPs determined not to have a l iquid market if Test 1 is passed
EN 84 EN
4. Securitised derivatives
Table 4.1
Securitised derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
Asset class - Securitised Derivativesmeans a transferable security as defined in Article 4(1)(44)(c) of Directive 2014/65/EU different from structured finance products and should include at least:(a) plain vanilla covered warrants means securities giving the holder the right, but not the obligation, to purchase (sell), at or by the expiry date, a specific amount of the underlying asset at a predetermined strike price or, in case cash settlement has been fixed, the payment of the positive difference between the current market price (the strike price) and the strike price (the current market price);(b) leverage certificates means certificates that track the performance of the underlying asset with leverage effect;(c) exotic covered warrants means covered warrants whose main component is a combination of options;(d) negotiable rights;(e) investment certificates means certificates that track the performance of the underlying asset without leverage effect.all securitised derivatives are considered to have a liquid marketFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be applied
EN 85 EN
Table 4.2
Securitised derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholdsAsset class - Securitised Derivatives
EN 86 EN
5. Interest rate derivatives
Table 5.1
Interest rate derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona bond future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - issuer of the underlyingSegmentation criterion 2 - term of the underlying deliverable bond defined as follows:Short-term: the underlying deliverable bond with a term between 1 and 4 years shall be considered to have a short-termMedium-term: the underlying deliverable bond with a term between 4 and 8 years shall be considered to have a medium-termLong-term: the underlying deliverable bond with a term between 8 and 15 years shall be considered to have a long-termUltra-long-term: the underlying deliverable bond with a term longer than 15 years shall be considered to have an ultra-long-termSegmentation criterion 3 - time to maturity bucket of the future defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsBond futures/forwardsEUR 5,000,00010whenever a sub-class is determined to have a liquid market with respect to a specific time to maturity bucket and the sub-class defined by the next time to maturity bucket is determined not to have a liquid market, the first back month contract is determined to have a liquid market 2 weeks before expiration of the front monthAsset class - Interest Rate Derivativesany contract as defined in Annex I, Section C(4) of Directive 2014/65/EU whose ultimate underlying is an interest rate, a bond, a loan, any basket, portfolio or index including an interest rate, a bond, a loan or any other product representing the performance of an interest rate, a bond, a loan.Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 87 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona bond option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying bond or underlying bond future/forwardSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsan interest rate future sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying interest rateSegmentation criterion 2 - term of the underlying interest rateSegmentation criterion 3 - time to maturity bucket of the future defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsIR futures and FRAEUR 500,000,00010whenever a sub-class is determined to have a liquid market with respect to a specific time to maturity bucket and the sub-class defined by the next time to maturity bucket is determined not to have a liquid market, the first back month contract is determined to have a liquid market 2 weeks before expiration of the front monthBond optionsEUR 5,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 88 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criterionan interest rate option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying interest rate or underlying interest rate future or FRASegmentation criterion 2 - term of the underlying interest rateSegmentation criterion 3 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsIR optionsEUR 500,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 89 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona swaption sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying swap type defined as follows: fixed-to-fixed single currency swap, futures/forwards on fixed-to-fixed single currency swap, fixed-to-float single currency swap, futures/forwards on fixed-to-float single currency swap, float-to-float single currency swap, futures/forwards on float-to-float single currency swap, inflation single currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation single currency swap, OIS single currency swap, futures/forwards on OIS single currency swap, fixed-to-fixed multi currency swap, futures/forwards on fixed-to-fixed multi currency swap, fixed-to-float multi currency swap, futures/forwards on fixed-to-float multi currency swap, float-to-float multi currency swap, futures/forwards on float-to-float multi currency swap, inflation multi currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation multi currency swap, OIS multi currency swap, futures/forwards on OIS multi currency swapSegmentation criterion 2 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the option is denominatedSegmentation criterion 3 - inflation index if the underlying swap type is either an inflation single currency swap or an inflation multi currency swapSegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsSegmentation criterion 5 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 5 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 5 years < time to maturity ≤ 10 yearsMaturity bucket 6: over 10 yearsSwaptionsEUR 500,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 90 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona fixed-to-float multi currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa float-to-float multi currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsFloat-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies and where the cash flows of both legs are determined by floating interest ratesEUR 50,000,00010Fixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies and the cash flows of one leg are determined by a fixed interest rate while those of the other leg are determined by a floating interest rateEUR 50,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 91 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona fixed-to-fixed multi currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsan overnight index swap (OIS) multi currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsOvernight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies and where the cash flows of at least one leg are determined by an Overnight Index Swap (OIS) rateEUR 50,000,00010Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies and where the cash flows of both legs are determined by fixed interest ratesEUR 50,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 92 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criterionan inflation multi currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa fixed-to-float single currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsFixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps' a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated denominated in the same currency and the cash flows of one leg are determined by a fixed interest rate while those of the other leg are determined by a floating interest rateEUR 50,000,00010Inflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Inflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in different currencies and where the cash flows of at least one leg are determined by an inflation rateEUR 50,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 93 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criteriona float-to-float single currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa fixed-to-fixed single currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsFixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in the same currency and where the cash flows of both legs are determined by fixed interest ratesEUR 50,000,00010Float-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'single currency swaps' a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in the same currency and where the cash flows of both legs are determined by floating interest ratesEUR 50,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 94 EN
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Additional qualitative liquidity criterionan overnight index swap (OIS) single currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsan inflation single currency sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - notional currency in which the two legs of the swap are denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsInflation 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Inflation 'single currency swaps' a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in the same currency and where the cash flows of at least one leg are determined by an inflation rateEUR 50,000,00010Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' a swap or a future/forward on a swap where two parties exchange cash flows denominated in the same currency and where the cash flows of at least one leg are determined by an Overnight Index Swap (OIS) rateEUR 50,000,00010Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 95 EN
Sub-asset classOther Interest Rate Derivativesan interest rate derivative that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesany other interest rate derivative is considered not to have a liquid marketFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), the following methodology shall be appliedAsset class - Interest Rate Derivatives
EN 96 EN
Table 5.2
Interest rate derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorIR futures and FRAcalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 5,000,00070EUR 25,000,00070EUR 10,000,0008060EUR 20,000,00090Bond optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class609070EUR 25,000,000EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 20,000,0009070EUR 25,000,000EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 20,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeBond futures/forwardscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60Transactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined to have a liquid market
EN 97 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floor70EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,00060EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,00070EUR 5,000,00080Fixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ Swaptionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,000calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,000IR optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class609070EUR 25,000,000EUR 5,000,00070EUR 10,000,0008060EUR 20,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined to have a liquid market
EN 98 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorOvernight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,000Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,00060EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060Float-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class9070EUR 10,000,000EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 9,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined to have a liquid market
EN 99 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorFloat-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'single currency swaps' calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,00060EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060Fixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps' calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class9070EUR 10,000,000EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 9,000,000Inflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Inflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ 9070EUR 10,000,00070EUR 5,000,00080calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,00060EUR 9,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined to have a liquid market
EN 100 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorOvernight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' EUR 10,000,00060EUR 9,000,0009070EUR 10,000,000calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,00080Inflation 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Inflation 'single currency swaps' calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-classEUR 9,000,000907060EUR 4,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060Fixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 4,000,00070EUR 10,000,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 9,000,00090Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined to have a liquid market
EN 101 EN
Table 5.3
Interest rate derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueBond futures/forwardsEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Bond optionsEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000IR futures and FRAEUR 5,000,000EUR 10,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000IR optionsEUR 5,000,000EUR 10,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000SwaptionsEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined not to have a liquid market
EN 102 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueFixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Float-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined not to have a liquid market
EN 103 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueInflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ and futures/forwards on Inflation 'multi currency swaps' or ‘cross-currency swaps’ EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Fixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Float 'single currency swaps'EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Float-to-Float 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Float-to-Float 'single currency swaps' EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Fixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Fixed-to-Fixed 'single currency swaps' EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined not to have a liquid market
EN 104 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueOvernight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Overnight Index Swap (OIS) 'single currency swaps' EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Inflation 'single currency swaps' and futures/forwards on Inflation 'single currency swaps' EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Other Interest Rate DerivativesEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 9,000,000EUR 10,000,000Asset class - Interest Rate DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for each sub-class determined not to have a liquid market
EN 105 EN
6. Equity derivatives
Table 6.1
Equity derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
Stock optionsan option whose underlying is a share or a basket of shares resulting from a corporate actionall stock options are considered to have a liquid marketStock index futures/ forwardsa future whose underlying is an index composed of sharesall index futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid marketStock futures/ forwardsa future whose underlying is a share or a basket of shares resulting from a corporate actionall stock futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid marketAsset class - Equity Derivativesany contract as defined Annex I, Section C(4) of Directive 2014/65/EU related to:(a) one or more shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates, other similar financial instruments, cash-flows or other products related to the performance of one or more shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates, or other similar financial instruments;(b) an index of shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates, other similar financial instruments, cash-flows or other products related to the performance of one or more shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates, or other similar financial instrumentsStock index optionsan option whose underlying is an index composed of sharesall index options are considered to have a liquid marketSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be applied
EN 106 EN
Stock dividend futures/ forwardsa future on the dividend of a specific shareall stock dividend futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid marketStock dividend optionsan option on the dividend of a specific shareall stock dividend options are considered to have a liquid marketAsset class - Equity DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedDividend index optionsan option on an index composed of dividends of more than one shareall dividend index options are considered to have a liquid marketDividend index futures/ forwardsa future on an index composed of dividends of more than one shareall dividend index futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid marketVolatility index optionsan option whose underlying is a volatility index defined as an index relating to the volatility of a specific underlying index of equity instrumentsall volatility index options are considered to have a liquid market
EN 107 EN
Asset class - Equity DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedETF futures/ forwardsa future whose underlying is an ETFall ETF futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid marketETF optionsan option whose underlying is an ETFall ETF options are considered to have a liquid marketVolatility index futures/ forwardsa future whose underlying is a volatility index defined as an index relating to the volatility of a specific underlying index of equity instrumentsall volatility index futures/ forwards are considered to have a liquid market
EN 108 EN
Price return basic performance parameterParameter return variance/volatilityParameter return dividendMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years…Maturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years……Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Equity DerivativesAverage daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Segmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 3 - parameter: price return basic performance parameter, parameter return dividend, parameter return variance, parameter return volatilitySegmentation criterion 2 - underlying single name, index, basketSegmentation criterion 1 - underlying type: single name, index, basketEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaSwapsSub-asset classAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]For the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowa swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:EUR 50,000,00015
EN 109 EN
Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Equity DerivativesAverage daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Each sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaPortfolio SwapsEUR 50,000,00015Sub-asset classAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]For the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowa portfolio swap sub-class is defined by a specific combination of:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying type: single name, index, basketSegmentation criterion 2 - underlying single name, index, basketSegmentation criterion 3 - parameter: price return basic performance parameter, parameter return dividend, parameter return variance, parameter return volatilitySegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the portfolio swap defined as follows:
EN 110 EN
Sub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedOther equity derivativesan equity derivative that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesany other equity derivative is considered not to have a liquid marketAsset class - Equity Derivatives
EN 111 EN
Table 6.2
Equity derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 250,000,000EUR 260,000,000EUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000EUR 3bn <= ADNA < EUR 5bnEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000Stock index futures/ forwardsa stock index future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1bn <= ADNA < EUR 3bnEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000ADNA >= EUR 5bnEUR 25,000,000EUR 30,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 30,000,000EUR 200m <= ADNA < EUR 600mEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying stock indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 1bnEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)Stock index optionsa stock index option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:EUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000ADNA >= EUR 600mEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying stock indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 200mEUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000EUR 25,000,000calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1,000,000
EN 112 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 450,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying share entitling to dividendsEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 25,000EUR 30,000EUR 500,000EUR 550,000Stock dividend optionsa stock dividend option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 50,000EUR 100,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 100,000EUR 150,000EUR 2,000,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 400,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,250,000Stock futures/ forwardsan stock future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying shareEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000Stock optionsa stock option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,250,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying shareEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 1,000,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 113 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000ADNA >= EUR 600mEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000Dividend index optionsa dividend index option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 200m <= ADNA < EUR 600mEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000EUR 400,000EUR 450,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying dvidend indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 200mEUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000EUR 25,000,000EUR 30,000,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying share entitling to dividendsEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 25,000EUR 30,000EUR 500,000EUR 550,000Stock dividend futures/ forwardsa stock dividend future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 50,000EUR 100,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 100,000EUR 150,000EUR 2,000,000EUR 2,500,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 114 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000ADNA >= EUR 600mEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 25,000,000EUR 30,000,000EUR 250,000,000EUR 260,000,000Volatility index optionsa volatility index option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying volatility indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 200mEUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000EUR 25,000,000EUR 30,000,000EUR 200m <= ADNA < EUR 600mEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying dvidend indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 1bnEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Dividend index futures/ forwardsa dividend index future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1bn <= ADNA < EUR 3bnEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000ADNA >= EUR 5bnEUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000EUR 3bn <= ADNA < EUR 5bnEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 115 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000EUR 250,000,000EUR 260,000,000ETF optionsan ETF option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,250,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying ETFEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 1,000,000EUR 50,000,000EUR 55,000,000EUR 3bn <= ADNA < EUR 5bnEUR 15,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 150,000,000EUR 160,000,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000Volatility index futures/ forwardsa volatility index future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 100m ADNAEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 1bn <= ADNA < EUR 3bnEUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000ADNA >= EUR 5bnEUR 25,000,000EUR 30,000,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying volatility indexEUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 1bnEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 116 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueAsset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)EUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 10m <= ADNA < EUR 20mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying ETFEUR 5m <= ADNA < EUR 10mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,250,000Sub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000ADNA >= EUR 20mEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000ETF futures/ forwardsan ETF future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class< EUR 5m ADNA
EN 117 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valuea swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Price return basic performance parameterParameter return variance/volatilityParameter return dividendMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years…Maturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years……Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 2 - underlying single name, index, basketMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsSwapsSegmentation criterion 1 - underlying type: single name, index, basketADNA >= EUR 200mEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Segmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:EUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 200mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000Segmentation criterion 3 - parameter: price return basic performance parameter, parameter return dividend, parameter return variance, parameter return volatilitycalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-classEUR 50m <= ADNA < EUR 100mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000Asset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 118 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 5: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 6: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-classSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEUR 50m <= ADNA < EUR 100mEUR 250,000EUR 300,000EUR 1,250,000EUR 1,500,000ADNA >= EUR 200mEUR 1,000,000EUR 1,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 5,500,000Porfolio Swapsa portfolio swap sub-class is defined by a specific combination of:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying type: single name, index, basketSegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the portfolio swap defined as follows:EUR 100m <= ADNA < EUR 200mEUR 500,000EUR 550,000EUR 2,500,000EUR 3,000,000Segmentation criterion 2 - underlying single name, index, basketSegmentation criterion 3 - parameter: price return basic performance parameter, parameter return dividend, parameter return variance, parameter return volatilityAsset class - Equity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS threshold values determined for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid market on the basis of the average daily notional amount (ADNA) band to which the sub-class belongsAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)
EN 119 EN
Table 6.3
Equity derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueSwapsEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 100,000EUR 150,000Porfolio SwapsEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 100,000EUR 150,000Other equity derivativesEUR 20,000EUR 25,000EUR 100,000EUR 150,000Pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid marketAsset class - Equity DerivativesSub-asset class
EN 120 EN
7. Commodity derivatives
Table 7.1
Commodity derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
Precious metalsNon-precious metalsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years……Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaMetal commodity futures/forwardsEUR 10,000,00010For the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowa metal commodity future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - metal type: precious metal, non-precious metalSegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the future/forward defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the future/forward is denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - underlying metal
EN 121 EN
Precious metalsNon-precious metalsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years……Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaMetal commodity optionsEUR 10,000,00010For the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowa metal commodity option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - metal type: precious metal, non-precious metalSegmentation criterion 2 - underlying metalSegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the option is denominatedSegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:
EN 122 EN
Precious metalsNon-precious metalsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years……Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaMetal commodity swapsEUR 10,000,00010For the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowa metal commodity swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 2 - underlying metalSegmentation criterion 1 - metal type: precious metal, non-precious metalSegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the swap is denominatedSegmentation criterion 5 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 4 - settlement type defined as cash, physical or other
EN 123 EN
Oil/ Oil Distillates/ Oil Light endsCoalNatural Gas/'Electricity/Inter-energyMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 4 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 4 months < time to maturity ≤ 8 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 8 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years………Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsEnergy commodity futures/forwardsEUR 10,000,00010an energy commodity future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 5 - delivery/ cash settlement location applicable to energy types: oil, oil distillates, oil light ends, electricity, inter-energyAsset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 6 - time to maturity bucket of the future/forward defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 2 - underlying energySegmentation criterion 1 - energy type: oil, oil distillates, coal, oil light ends, natural gas, electricity, inter-energySegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the future/forward is denominatedSegmentation criterion 4 - load type defined as baseload, peakload, off-peak or others, applicable to energy type: electricity
EN 124 EN
Oil/ Oil Distillates/ Oil Light endsCoalNatural Gas/'Electricity/Inter-energyMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 4 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 4 months < time to maturity ≤ 8 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 8 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years………Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsEnergy commodity optionsEUR 10,000,00010an energy commodity option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 4 - load type defined as baseload, peakload, off-peak or others, applicable to energy type: electricitySegmentation criterion 6 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Asset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 1 - energy type: oil, oil distillates, coal, oil light ends, natural gas, electricity, inter-energySegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the option is denominatedSegmentation criterion 5 - delivery/ cash settlement location applicable to energy types: oil, oil distillates, oil light ends, electricity, inter-energySegmentation criterion 2 - underlying energy
EN 125 EN
Oil/ Oil Distillates/ Oil Light endsCoalNatural Gas/'Electricity/Inter-energyMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 4 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 4 months < time to maturity ≤ 8 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 8 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years………Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsEnergy commodity swapsEUR 10,000,00010an energy commodity swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Asset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 4 - settlement type defined as cash, physical or otherSegmentation criterion 7 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 5 - load type defined as baseload, peakload, off-peak or others, applicable to energy type: electricitySegmentation criterion 2 - underlying energySegmentation criterion 1 - energy type: oil, oil distillates, coal, oil light ends, natural gas, electricity, inter-energySegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the swap is denominatedSegmentation criterion 6 - delivery/ cash settlement location applicable to energy types: oil, oil distillates, oil light ends, electricity, inter-energy
EN 126 EN
Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsMaturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAgricultural commodity futures/forwardsEUR 10,000,00010Agricultural commodity optionsEUR 10,000,00010an agricultural commodity future/forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:an agricultural commodity option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Asset class - Commodity DerivativesAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 3 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 3 - time to maturity bucket of the future/forward defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying agricultural commoditySegmentation criterion 1 - underlying agricultural commoditySegmentation criterion 2 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the future/forward is denominatedSegmentation criterion 2 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the option is denominated
EN 127 EN
Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedAgricultural commodity swapsEUR 10,000,00010Asset class - Commodity DerivativesOther commodity derivativesa commodity derivative that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesany other commodity derivative is considered not to have a liquid marketAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowSegmentation criterion 4 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Segmentation criterion 3 - settlement type defined as cash, physical or otherSegmentation criterion 1 - underlying agricultural commoditySegmentation criterion 2 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the swap is denominatedan agricultural commodity swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:
EN 128 EN
Table 7.2
Commodity derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorAsset class - Commodity Derivatives60EUR 750,0009070EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,000,000Metal commodity optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60Transactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeMetal commodity futures/forwardsSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketcalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070EUR 500,00060EUR 750,000907080Metal commodity swapscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070907060EUR 750,000EUR 250,00070EUR 500,0008080EUR 1,000,000EUR 500,000
EN 129 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorAsset class - Commodity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketcalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070EUR 500,00080calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070Energy commodity futures/forwards9070EUR 1,000,000EUR 250,00070EUR 500,0008060EUR 750,000Energy commodity optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class6060EUR 750,0009070EUR 1,000,000EUR 1,000,00060EUR 750,0009070EUR 1,000,000calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070EUR 500,00080Agricultural commodity futures/forwardsEUR 500,0008060EUR 750,0009070Energy commodity swaps
EN 130 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorAsset class - Commodity DerivativesTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketEUR 1,000,000Agricultural commodity optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class609070EUR 1,000,000EUR 250,00070EUR 500,0008060EUR 750,000EUR 500,0008060EUR 750,0009070Agricultural commodity swapscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 250,00070
EN 131 EN
Table 7.3
Commodity derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueMetal commodity futures/forwardsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Metal commodity optionsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Metal commodity swapsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Energy commodity futures/forwardsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Energy commodity optionsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Asset class - Commodity DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 132 EN
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueEnergy commodity swapsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Agricultural commodity futures/forwardsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Agricultural commodity optionsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Agricultural commodity swapsEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Other commodity derivativesEUR 250,000EUR 500,000EUR 750,000EUR 1,000,000Asset class - Commodity DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 133 EN
8. Foreign exchange derivatives
Table 8.1
Foreign exchange derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
a non-deliverable FX forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the forward defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsNon-deliverable forward (NDF)means a forward that, by its terms, is cash-settled between its counterparties, where the settlement amount is determined by the difference in the exchange rate of two currencies as between the trade date and the valuation date. On the settlement date, one party will owe the other party the net difference between (i) the exchange rate set at the trade date; and (ii) the exchange rate on the valuation date, based upon the notional amount, with such net amount payable in the settlement currency stipulated in the contract.Asset class - Foreign Exchange Derivativesa financial instrument relating to currencies as defined in Section C(4) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EUSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Non-deliverable forward (NDF) are considered not to have a liquid market
EN 134 EN
a deliverable FX forward sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the forward defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa non-deliverable FX option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Foreign Exchange DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Non-Deliverable FX options (NDO)means an option that, by its terms, is cash-settled between its counterparties, where the settlement amount is determined by the difference in the exchange rate of two currencies as between the trade date and the valuation date. On the settlement date, one party will owe the other party the net difference between (i) the exchange rate set at the trade date; and (ii) the exchange rate on the valuation date, based upon the notional amount, with such net amount payable in the settlement currency stipulated in the contract.Deliverable forward (DF)means a forward that solely involves the exchange of two different currencies on a specific future contracted settlement date at a fixed rate agreed upon on the inception of the contract covering the exchange.Non-Deliverable FX options (NDO) are considered not to have a liquid marketDeliverable forward (DF) are considered not to have a liquid market
EN 135 EN
a deliverable FX option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa non-deliverable FX swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Foreign Exchange DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Non-Deliverable FX swaps (NDS)means a swap that, by its terms, is cash-settled between its counterparties, where the settlement amount is determined by the difference in the exchange rate of two currencies as between the trade date and the valuation date. On the settlement date, one party will owe the other party the net difference between (i) the exchange rate set at the trade date; and (ii) the exchange rate on the valuation date, based upon the notional amount, with such net amount payable in the settlement currency stipulated in the contract.Deliverable FX options (DO)means an option that solely involves the exchange of two different currencies on a specific future contracted settlement date at a fixed rate agreed upon on the inception of the contract covering the exchange.Non-Deliverable FX swaps (NDS) are considered not to have a liquid marketDeliverable FX options (DO) are considered not to have a liquid market
EN 136 EN
a deliverable FX swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the swap defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsan FX future sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the derivative contractSegmentation criterion 2 - time to maturity bucket of the future defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 weekMaturity bucket 2: 1 week < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 4: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 5: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Foreign Exchange DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]FX futuresDeliverable FX swaps (DS)means a swap that solely involves the exchange of two different currencies on a specific future contracted settlement date at a fixed rate agreed upon on the inception of the contract covering the exchange.FX futures are considered not to have a liquid marketDeliverable FX swaps (DS) are considered not to have a liquid market
EN 137 EN
Sub-asset classAsset class - Foreign Exchange DerivativesOther Foreign Exchange Derivativesan FX derivative that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedany other FX derivative is considered not to have a liquid market
EN 138 EN
Table 8.2
Foreign exchange derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueNon-deliverable forward (NDF)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Deliverable forward (DF)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Non-Deliverable FX options (NDO)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Deliverable FX options (DO)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Non-Deliverable FX swaps (NDS)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Deliverable FX swaps (DS)EUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000FX futuresEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Other Foreign Exchange DerivativesEUR 4,000,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 20,000,000EUR 25,000,000Asset class - Foreign Exchange DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 139 EN
9. Credit derivatives
Table 9.1
Credit derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
an index credit default swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying indexSegmentation criterion 3 - time maturity bucket of the CDS defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsIndex credit default swap (CDS )a swap whose exchange of cash flows is linked to the creditworthiness of several issuers of financial instruments composing an index and the occurrence of credit eventsEUR 200,000,00010The underlying index is considered to have a liquid market:(1) during the whole period of its 'on-the-run status'(2) for the first 30 working days of its '1x off-the-run status''on-the-run' index means the rolling most recent version (series) of the index created on the date on which the composition of the index is effective and ending one day prior to the date on which the composition of the next version (series) of the index is effective.'1x off-the-run status' means the version (series) of the index which is immediately prior to the current ‘on-the-run’ version (series) at a certain point in time. A version (series) ceases being ‘on-the-run’ and acquires its '1x off-the-run' status when the latest version (series) of the index is created. Segmentation criterion 2 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the derivative is denominatedAsset class - Credit DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]On-the-run status of the index[Additional qualitative liquidity criterion]
EN 140 EN
a single name credit default swap sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - underlying reference entitySegmentation criterion 2 - underlying reference entity type defined as follows:“Issuer of sovereign and public type” means an issuer entity which is either:(a) the Union; (b) a Member State including a government department, an agency or a special purpose vehicle of a Member State;(c) a sovereign entity which is not listed under points (a) and (b). in the case of a Federal Member State, a member of the federation;(d) in the case of a federal Member State, a member of that federation; (e) a special purpose vehicle for several Member States; (f) an international financial institution established by two or more Member States which have the purpose of mobilising funding and providing financial assistance to the benefit of its members that are experiencing or are threatened by severe financial problems;(g) the European Investment Bank;(h) a public entity which is not an issuer of a sovereign issuer as specified in the points (a) to (c).“Issuer of corporate type” means an issuer entity which is not an issuer of sovereign and public type.Segmentation criterion 4 - time maturity bucket of the CDS defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 2: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 3: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsEUR 10,000,00010Single name credit default swap (CDS )a swap whose exchange of cash flows is linked to the creditworthiness of one issuer of financial instruments and the occurrence of credit eventsSegmentation criterion 3 - notional currency defined as the currency in which the notional amount of the derivative is denominatedAsset class - Credit DerivativesSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria. For sub-classes determined to have a liquid market the additional qualitative liquidity criterion, where applicable, shall be appliedAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]On-the-run status of the index[Additional qualitative liquidity criterion]
EN 141 EN
a CDS index option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - CDS index sub-class as specified for the sub-asset class of index credit default swap (CDS )Segmentation criterion 2 - time maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsa single name CDS option sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - single name CDS sub-class as specified for the sub-asset class of single name CDSSegmentation criterion 2 - time maturity bucket of the option defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 2: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 3: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 4: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - Credit DerivativesEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet the following qualitative liquidity criterionSingle name CDS optionsan option whose underlying is a single name CDSa single name CDS option whose underlying single name CDS is a sub-class determined to have a liquid market and whose time to maturity bucket is 0-6 months is considered to have a liquid marketa single name CDS option whose underlyingsingle name CDS is a sub-class determined to have a liquid market and whose time to maturity bucket is not 0-6 months is not considered to have a liquid marketa single name CDS option whose underlying single name CDS is a sub-class determined not to have a liquid market is not considered to have a liquid market for any given time to maturity bucketCDS index optionsan option whose underlying is a CDS indexa CDS index option whose underlying CDS index is a sub-class determined to have a liquid market and whose time to maturity bucket is 0-6 months is considered to have a liquid marketa CDS index option whose underlying CDS index is a sub-class determined to have a liquid market and whose time to maturity bucket is not 0-6 months is not considered to have a liquid marketa CDS index option whose underlying CDS index is a sub-class determined not to have a liquid market is not considered to have a liquid market for any given time to maturity bucketSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below
EN 142 EN
Asset class - Credit DerivativesOther credit derivativesa credit derivative that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesany other credit derivatives is considered not to have a liquid marketSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall apply
EN 143 EN
Table 9.2
Credit derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorEUR 10,000,000Bespoke basket credit default swap (CDS)calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 2,500,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 7,500,0009070EUR 10,000,000Single name credit default swap (CDS )calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 2,500,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 7,500,0009070EUR 10,000,000Index credit default swap (CDS )calculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 2,500,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 7,500,0009070Asset class - Credit DerivativesSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-trade
EN 144 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorEUR 10,000,000Single name CDS optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 2,500,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 7,500,0009070EUR 10,000,000CDS index optionscalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 2,500,00070EUR 5,000,0008060EUR 7,500,0009070Asset class - Credit DerivativesSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-trade
EN 145 EN
Table 9.3
Credit derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueIndex credit default swap (CDS )EUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000Single name credit default swap (CDS )EUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000Bespoke basket credit default swap (CDS)EUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000CDS index optionsEUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000Single name CDS optionsEUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000Other credit derivativesEUR 2,500,000EUR 5,000,000EUR 7,500,000EUR 10,000,000Asset class - Credit DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 146 EN
10. C10 derivatives
Table 10.1
C10 derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
a freight derivative sub-class is defined by the following segmentation criteria:Segmentation criterion 1 - contract type: Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs) or optionsSegmentation criterion 2 - freight type: wet freight, dry freightSegmentation criterion 3 - freight sub-type: dry bulk carriers, tanker, containershipSegmentation criterion 4 - specification of the size related to the freight sub-typeSegmentation criterion 5 - specific route or time charter averageSegmentation criterion 6 - time maturity bucket of the derivative defined as follows:Maturity bucket 1: 0 < time to maturity ≤ 1 monthMaturity bucket 2: 1 month < time to maturity ≤ 3 monthsMaturity bucket 3: 3 months < time to maturity ≤ 6 monthsMaturity bucket 4: 6 months < time to maturity ≤ 9 monthsMaturity bucket 5: 9 months < time to maturity ≤ 1 yearMaturity bucket 6: 1 year < time to maturity ≤ 2 yearsMaturity bucket 7: 2 years < time to maturity ≤ 3 years…Maturity bucket m: (n-1) years < time to maturity ≤ n yearsAsset class - C10 DerivativesFreight derivativesa financial instrument relating to freight rates as defined in Section C(10) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EUAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Sub-asset classEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteriaFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Article 6 and 8(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined below10EUR 10,000,000
EN 147 EN
Sub-asset classOther C10 derivativesa financial instrument as defined in Section C(10) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EU which is not a ‘Freight derivative’, any of the following interest rate derivatives sub-asset classes: 'Inflation multi currency swap or cross-currency swap', a 'Future/forward on inflation multi currency swaps or cross-currency swaps', an 'Inflation sinlgle currency swap', a 'Future/forward on inflation sinlgle currency swap' and any of the following equity derivatives sub-asset classes: a 'Volatility index option', a 'Volatility index future/forward', a swap with parameter return variance, a swap with parameter return volatility, a portfolio swap with parameter return variance, a portfolio swap with parameter return volatilityany other C10 derivatives is considered not to have a liquid marketFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedAsset class - C10 Derivatives
EN 148 EN
Table 10.2
C10 derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorFreight derivativescalculation of thresholds should be performed for each sub-class of the sub-asset class considering the transactions executed on financial instruments belonging to the sub-class60EUR 25,00070EUR 50,0008060EUR 75,0009070EUR 100,000Asset class - C10 DerivativesSub-asset classPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketLIS post-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-trade
EN 149 EN
Table 10.3
C10 derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueFreight derivativesEUR 25,000EUR 50,000EUR 75,000EUR 100,000Other C10 derivativesEUR 25,000EUR 50,000EUR 75,000EUR 100,000Asset class - C10 DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 150 EN
11. Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)
Table 11.1
CFDs – classes not having a liquid market
Currency CFDsa currency CFD sub-class is defined by the underlying currency pair defined as combination of the two currencies underlying the CFD/spread betting contractEUR 50,000,000100Commodity CFDsa commodity CFD sub-class is defined by the underlying commodity of the CFD/spread betting contractEUR 50,000,000100Qualitative liquidity criterionAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Asset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)a derivative contract that gives the holder an exposure, which can be long or short, to the difference between the price of an underlying asset at the start of the contract and the price when the contract is closedSub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria or, where applicable, if it does not meet the qualitative liquidity criterion as defined below
EN 151 EN
Equity CFDsan equity CFD sub-class is defined by the underlying equity security of the CFD/spread betting contractan equity CFD sub-class is considered to have a liquid market if the underlying is an equity security for which there is a liquid market as determined in accordance with Article 2(1)(17)(b) of Regulation 600/2014Bond CFDsa bond CFD sub-class is defined by the underlying bond or bond future of the CFD/spread betting contracta bond CFD sub-class is considered to have a liquid market if the underlying is a bond or bond future for which there is a liquid market as determined in accordance with Articles 6 and 8(1)(b).CFDs on an equity future/forwarda CFD on an equity future/forward sub-class is defined by the underlying future/forward on an equity of the CFD/spread betting contracta CFD on an equity future/forward sub-class is considered to have a liquid market if the underlying is an equity future/forward for which there is a liquid market as determined in accordance with Articles 6 and 8(1)(b).CFDs on an equity optiona CFD on an equity option sub-class is defined by the underlying option on an equity of the CFD/spread betting contracta CFD on an equity option sub-class is considered to have a liquid market if the underlying is an equity option for which there is a liquid market as determined in accordance with Articles 6 and 8(1)(b).Qualitative liquidity criterionAverage daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Asset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)Sub-asset classFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b), each sub-asset class shall be further segmented into sub-classes as defined belowEach sub-class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria or, where applicable, if it does not meet the qualitative liquidity criterion as defined below
EN 152 EN
Sub-asset classOther CFDsa CFD/spread betting that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedany other CFD/spread betting is considered not to have a liquid marketAsset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)
EN 153 EN
Table 11.2
CFDs– pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorCurrency CFDstransactions executed on currency CFDs considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000Commodity CFDstransactions executed on commodity CFDs considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000Equity CFDstransactions executed on equity CFDs considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000Bond CFDstransactions executed on equity CFDs considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000Sub-asset classAsset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)Percentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI post-tradeLIS post-trade
EN 154 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileVolume - percentileThreshold floorCFDs on an equity future/forwardtransactions executed on CFDs on future on an equity considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000CFDs on an equity optiontransactions executed on CFDs on option on an equity considered to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b)60EUR 50,00070EUR 60,0008060EUR 90,0009070EUR 100,000Sub-asset classAsset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)Percentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined to have a liquid marketSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeTransactions to be considered for the calculations of the thresholdsSSTI post-tradeLIS post-trade
EN 155 EN
Table 11.3
CFDs– pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueCurrency CFDsEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Commodity CFDsEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Equity CFDsEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Bond CFDsEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000CFDs on an equity future/forwardEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000CFDs on an equity optionEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Other CFDs/ spread bettingEUR 50,000EUR 60,000EUR 90,000EUR 100,000Asset class - Financial contracts for differences (CFDs)Sub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 156 EN
12. Emission allowances
Table 12.1
Emission allowances – classes not having a liquid market
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]European Union Allowances (EUA)any unit recognised for compliance with the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC (Emissions Trading Scheme) which represents the right to emit the equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e)150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)any unit recognised for compliance with the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC (Emissions Trading Scheme) which represents the right to emit the equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) from aviation150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Certified Emission Reductions (CER)any unit recognised for compliance with the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC (Emissions Trading Scheme) which represents the emissions reduction equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e)150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Emission Reduction Units (ERU)any unit recognised for compliance with the requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC (Emissions Trading Scheme) which represents the emissions reduction equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e)150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Asset class - Emission AllowancesSub-asset classEach sub-asset class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria
EN 157 EN
Sub-asset classOther Emission Allowancesan emission allowance that does not belong to any of the above sub-asset classesFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedany other emission allowance is considered not to have a liquid marketAsset class - Emission Allowances
EN 158 EN
Table 12.2
Emission allowances – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-asset classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorEuropean Union Allowances (EUA)transactions executed on all European Union Allowances (EUA)6040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7050,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8090,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide90100,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEuropean Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)transactions executed on all European Union Aviation Allowance (EUAA)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideCertified Emission Reductions (CER)transactions executed on all Certified Emission Reductions (CER)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission Reduction Units (ERU)transactions executed on all Emission Reduction Units (ERU)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeSub-asset class Asset class - Emission Allowances Transactions to be considered for the calculation of the thresholdsPercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-asset classes determined to have a liquid marketLIS post-trade
EN 159 EN
Table 12.3
Emission allowances – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-asset classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueEuropean Union Allowances (EUA)40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide90,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide100,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEuropean Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideCertified Emission Reductions (CER)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission Reduction Units (ERU)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideOther Emission Allowances20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideAsset class - Emission AllowancesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 160 EN
13. Emission allowance derivatives
Table 13.1
Emission allowance derivatives – classes not having a liquid market
Average daily notional amount (ADNA)[quantitative liquidity criterion 1]Average daily number of trades[quantitative liquidity criterion 2]Emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Allowances (EUA)a financial instrument relating to emission allowances of the type European Union Allowances (EUA) as defined in Section C(4) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EU150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)a financial instrument relating to emission allowances of the type European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA) as defined in Section C(4) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EU150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Certified Emission Reductions (CER)a financial instrument relating to emission allowances of the type Certified Emission Reductions (CER) as defined in Section C(4) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EU150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Emission Reduction Units (ERU)a financial instrument relating to emission allowances of the type Emission Reduction Units (ERU) as defined in Section C(4) of Annex I of Directive 2014/65/EU150,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide5Asset class - Emission Allowance DerivativesSub-asset classEach sub-asset class shall be determined not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) if it does not meet one or all of the following thresholds of the quantitative liquidity criteria
EN 161 EN
Sub-asset classOther Emission allowance derivativesan emission allowance derivative whose underlying is not a European Union Allowances (EUA), a European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA), a Certified Emission Reductions (CER) and an Emission Reduction Units (ERU)Asset class - Emission Allowance DerivativesFor the purpose of the determination of the classes of financial instruments considered not to have a liquid market as per Articles 6 and 8(1)(b) the following methodology shall be appliedany other emission allowance derivative is considered not to have a liquid market
EN 162 EN
Table 13.2
Emission allowance derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-asset classes determined to have a liquid market
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Allowances (EUA)transactions executed on all emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Allowances (EUA)6040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7050,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8090,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide90100,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)transactions executed on all emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeAsset class - Emission Allowance DerivativesLIS post-tradePercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-asset classes determined to have a liquid marketSSTI post-tradeSub-asset classTransactions to be considered for the calculation of the thresholds
EN 163 EN
Trade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorTrade - percentileThreshold floorEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Certified Emission Reductions (CER)transactions executed on all emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Certified Emission Reductions (CER)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Emission Reduction Units (ERU)transactions executed on all emission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Emission Reduction Units (ERU)6020,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide7025,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide8040,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide9050,000 tons of Carbon DioxideSSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeAsset class - Emission Allowance DerivativesLIS post-tradePercentiles and threshold floors to be applied for the calculation of the pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-asset classes determined to have a liquid marketSSTI post-tradeSub-asset classTransactions to be considered for the calculation of the thresholds
EN 164 EN
Table 13.3
Emission allowance derivatives – pre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for sub-asset classes determined not to have a liquid market
SSTI pre-tradeLIS pre-tradeSSTI post-tradeLIS post-tradeThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueThreshold valueEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Allowances (EUA)40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide90,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide100,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type European Union Aviation Allowances (EUAA)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Certified Emission Reductions (CER)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideEmission allowance derivatives whose underlying is of the type Emission Reduction Units (ERU)20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideOther Emission allowance derivatives20,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide25,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide40,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide50,000 tons of Carbon DioxideAsset class - Emission Allowance DerivativesSub-asset classPre-trade and post-trade SSTI and LIS thresholds for the sub-asset classes determined not to have a liquid market
EN 165 EN
Annex IV: Reference data to be provided for the purpose of transparency calculations
Table 1
Symbol table for Table 2 SYMBOL DATA TYPE DEFINITION
{ALPHANUM-n}
Up to n alphanumerical characters
Free text field.
{DECIMAL-n/m}
Decimal number of up to n digits in total of which up to m digits can be fraction digits
Numerical field for both positive and negative values: - decimal separator is '.' (full stop); - the number may be prefixed with '-' (minus) to indicate negative numbers.
Where applicable, values shall be rounded and not truncated.
{COUNTRYCODE_2}
2 alphanumerical characters
2 letter country code, as defined by ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
3 alphanumerical characters
3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency codes
{DATEFORMAT}
ISO 8601 date format
Dates should be formatted by the following format: YYYY-MM-DD.
{ISIN}
12 alphanumerical characters
ISIN code, as defined in ISO 6166
{LEI}
20 alphanumerical characters
Legal entity identifier as defined in ISO 17442
{MIC}
4 alphanumerical characters
Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383
{INDEX}
4 alphabetic characters
‘EONA’ – EONIA
‘EONS’ - EONIA SWAP
‘EURI’ - EURIBOR
‘EUUS’ - EURODOLLAR
‘EUCH’ - EuroSwiss
‘GCFR’ - GCF REPO
‘ISDA’ - ISDAFIX
’LIBI’ - LIBID
‘LIBO’ - LIBOR
‘MAAA’ – Muni AAA
‘PFAN’ - Pfandbriefe
‘TIBO’ - TIBOR
‘STBO’ - STIBOR
‘BBSW’ - BBSW
‘JIBA’ - JIBAR
‘BUBO’ - BUBOR
‘CDOR’ - CDOR
‘CIBO’ - CIBOR
‘MOSP’ - MOSPRIM
‘NIBO’ - NIBOR
‘PRBO’ - PRIBOR
‘TLBO’ - TELBOR
EN 166 EN
‘WIBO’ – WIBOR
‘TREA’ – Treasury
‘SWAP’ – SWAP
‘FUSW’ – Future SWAP
EN 167 EN
Table 2
Details of the reference data to be provided for the purpose of transparency calculations # FIELD DETAILS TO BE REPORTED FORMAT FOR REPORTING
1
Instrument identification code
Code used to identify the financial instrument
{ISIN}
2
Instrument full name
Full name of the financial instrument
{ALPHANUM-350}
3
MiFIR identifier
Identification of non-equity financial instruments:
Securitised derivatives as defined in Table 4.1 in Section 4 of Annex III
Structured Finance Products (SFPs) as defined in Article 2(1)(28) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014
Bonds (for all bonds except ETCs and ETNs) as defined in Article 4(44)(b) of Directive 2014/65/EU
ETCs as defined in in Article 4(44)(b) of Directive 2014/65/EU and further specified in Table 2.4 of Section 2 of Annex III
ETNs as defined in in Article 4(44)(b) of Directive 2014/65/EU and further specified in Table 2.4 of Section 2 of Annex III
Emission allowances as defined in Table 12.1 of Section 12 of Annex III
Derivative as defined in Annex I, Section C (4) to (10) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014
Non-equity financial instruments:
‘SDRV’ - Securitised derivatives
‘SFPS’ - Structured Finance Products (SFPs)
‘BOND’ - Bonds
‘ETCS’ - ETCs
‘ETNS’ - ETNs
‘EMAL’ - Emission Allowances
‘DERV’ - Derivative
4
Asset class of the underlying
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a securitised derivative or a derivative.
‘INTR’ - Interest rate
‘EQUI’ - Equity
‘COMM’ - Commodity
‘CRDT’ - Credit
‘CURR’ - Currency
5
Contract type
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative.
‘OPTN’ - Options
‘FUTR’ - Futures
‘FRAS’ - Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)
‘FORW’ - Forwards
‘SWAP’ – Swaps
EN 168 EN
‘PSWP’ – Portfolio Swaps
‘SWPT’ - Swaptions
‘FONS’ - Futures on a swap
‘FWOS’ - Forwards on a swap
‘FFAS’ - Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs)
‘SPDB’ - Spread betting
‘CFDS’ - CFD
‘OTHR’ - Other Venue related fields
6
Trading Venue
Segment MIC for the trading venue where available, otherwise operational MIC.
{MIC} Bonds (all bond types except ETCs and ETNs) related fields
7
Bond type
Bond type as specified in Table 2.2 of Section 2 of Annex III. To be populated only when the MiFIR identifier is equal to bonds.
Sovereign Bond
Other Public Bond
Convertible Bond
Covered Bond
Corporate Bond
‘EUSB’ - Sovereign Bond
‘OEPB’ - Other Public Bond
‘CVTB’ - Convertible Bond
‘CVDB’ - Covered Bond
‘CRPB’ - Corporate Bond
‘OTHR’ - Other
8
Issuance date
Date on which a bond is issued and begins to accrue interest.
{DATEFORMAT} Emission Allowances related fields The fields in this section should only be populated for emission allowances as defined in Table 13.1 of Section 13 of Annex III
9
Emissions Allowances sub type
Emissions Allowances
'CERE' - CER 'ERUE' - ERU 'EUAE' - EUA 'EUAA' - EUAA ‘OTHR’ - Other Derivatives related fields
EN 169 EN
10
Maturity
Maturity of the financial instrument. Field applicable for the asset classes of bonds, interest rate derivatives, equity derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives, credit derivatives C10 derivatives and derivatives on emission allowances.
{DATEFORMAT} Commodity derivatives
11
Specification of the size related to the freight sub-type
Field to be populated when the base product specified in field 35 in Table 2 of the Annex in [RTS on Reference data] is equal to freight.
{ALPHANUM-25}
12
Specific route or time charter average
Field to be populated when the base product specified in field 35 in Table 2 of the Annex in [RTS on Reference data] is equal to freight.
{ALPHANUM-25}
13
Delivery/ cash settlement location
Field to be populated when the base product specified in field 35 in Table 2 of the Annex in [RTS on Reference data] is equal to energy.
{ALPHANUM-25}
14
Notional currency
Currency in which the notional is denominated.
{CURRENCYCODE_3} Interest rate derivatives The fields in this section should only be populated for interest rate derivatives as defined in Table 5.1 of Section 5 of Annex III
15
Underlying type
To be populated for contract type different from swaps, swaptions, futures on a swap and forwards on a swap with one of the following alternatives
To be populated for the contract types of swaps, swaptions, futures on a swap and forwards on a swap with regard to the underlying swap with one of the following alternatives
‘BOND’ - Bond
‘BNDF’ - Bond Futures
‘INRT’ - Interest rate
‘OTHR’ - Other
‘FFMC’ - FLOAT TO FLOAT MULTI-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘XFMC’ - FIXED TO FLOAT MULTI-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘XXMC’ - FIXED TO FIXED MULTI-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘OSMC’ - OIS MULTI-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘IFMC’ - INFLATION MULTI-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘FFSC’ - FLOAT TO FLOAT SINGLE-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘XFSC’ - FIXED TO FLOAT SINGLE-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘XXSC’ - FIXED TO FIXED SINGLE-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘OSSC’ - OIS SINGLE-CURRENCY SWAPS
‘IFSC’ - INFLATION SINGLE-CURRENCY SWAPS
16
Issuer of the underlying bond
Field to be populated when the underlying type is a bond or a bond future with the legal entity identifier code (LEI) of the issuer of the direct or ultimate underlying bond.
{LEI}
EN 170 EN
17
Maturity date of the underlying bond
Field to be populated whenever the underlying bond is not admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue with the date of maturity of the underlying bond.
The field applies to debt instruments with defined maturity.
{DATEFORMAT}
18
Notional currency of the swaption
Field to be populated for swaptions.
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
19
Maturity of the underlying swap
To be populated for swaptions, futures on swaps and forwards on a swap only.
{DATEFORMAT}
20
Inflation index ISIN code
In case of swaptions on one of the following underlying swap types: inflation single currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation single currency swap, inflation multi-currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation multi-currency swap; whenever the inflation index has an ISIN, the field has to be populated with the ISIN code for that index.
{ISIN}
21
Inflation index name
To be populated with standardised name of the index in case of swaptions on one of the following underlying swap types: inflation single currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation single currency swap, inflation multi-currency swap, futures/forwards on inflation multi-currency swap.
{ALPHANUM-25}
22
Reference rate
Name of the reference rate.
{INDEX}
or
{ALPHANUM-25}- if the reference rate is not included in the {INDEX} list
23
IR Term of contract
This field states the term of the contract. The term shall be expressed in days, weeks, months or years.
{INTEGER-3}+'DAYS' - days
{INTEGER-3}+'WEEK' - weeks
{INTEGER-3}+'MNTH' - months
{INTEGER-3}+'YEAR' - years Foreign exchange derivatives The fields in this section should only be populated for foreign exchange derivatives as defined in Table 8.1 of Section 8 of Annex III
24
Contract sub-type
Field should be populated as to differentiate deliverable and non-deliverable forwards, options and swaps as defined in Table 8.1 of Section 8 of Annex III.
‘DLVB’ - Deliverable
‘NDLV’ - Non-deliverable Equity derivatives The fields should only be populated for equity derivatives as defined in Table 6.1 of Section 6 of Annex III
25
Underlying type
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative, the asset class of the underlying is equity and the sub-asset class is neither swaps nor portfolio swaps the field should be populated with one of the following alternatives:
‘STIX’ - Stock Index ‘SHAR’ – Share/Stock ‘DIVI’ - Dividend Index ‘DVSE’ - Stock dividend ‘BSKT’ - Basket of shares resulting from a corporate action
EN 171 EN
Contracts for difference (CFDs) The fields should only be populated when the contract type is equal to contract for difference or spread betting
27
Underlying type
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative and the contract type is equal to contract for difference or spread betting.
‘CURR’ - Currency ‘EQUI’ - Equity ‘BOND’ - Bonds ‘FTEQ’ - Futures on an equity ‘OPEQ’ - Options on an equity ‘COMM’ - Commodity ‘OTHR’ - Other
28
Notional currency 1
Currency 1 of the underlying currency pair. This field is applicable when the underlying type is currency.
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
29
Notional currency 2
Currency 2 of the underlying currency pair. This field is applicable when the underlying type is currency.
{CURRENCYCODE_3} Credit derivatives
30
ISIN code of the underlying credit default
To be populated for derivatives on a credit default swaps
{ISIN}
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative, the asset class of the underlying is equity, the sub-asset class is either swaps or portfolio swaps and the segmentation criterion 2 as defined in Table 6.1 of Section 6 of Annex III is a single name the field should be populated with one of the following alternatives:
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative, the asset class of the underlying is equity, the sub-asset class is either swaps or portfolio swaps and the segmentation criterion 2 as defined in Table 6.1 of Section 6 of Annex III is an index the field should be populated with one of the following alternatives:
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative, the asset class of the underlying is equity, the sub-asset class is either swaps or portfolio swaps and the segmentation criterion 2 as defined in Table 6.1 of Section 6 of Annex III is a basket the field should be populated with one of the following alternatives:
‘ETFF’ - ETFT ‘VOLI’ - Volatility Index ‘OTHE’ - Other (including depositary receipts, certificates and other equity like financial instrument)
‘SHAR’ – Share/Stock ‘DVSE’ - Stock dividend ‘ETFF’ - ETFT ‘OTHE’ - Other (including depositary receipts, certificates and other equity like financial instrument)
‘STIX’ - Stock Index ‘DIVI’ - Dividend Index ‘VOLI’ - Volatility Index ‘OTHE’ - Other
‘BSKT’ - Basket
26
Parameter
To be populated when the MiFIR identifier is a derivative, the asset class of the underlying is equity and the sub-asset class is one of the following: swaps, portfolio swaps.
‘PRBP’ - Price return basic performance parameter ‘PRDV’ - Parameter return dividend ‘PRVA’ - Parameter return variance ‘PRVO’ - Parameter return volatility
EN 172 EN
swap
with the ISIN code of the underlying swap.
31
Underlying Index code
To be populated for derivatives on a CDS index with the ISIN code of the index.
{ISIN}
32
Underlying Index name
To be populated for derivatives on a CDS index with the standardised name of the index.
{ALPHANUM-25}
33
Series
The series number of the composition of the index if applicable.
To be populated for a CDS Index or a derivative on a CDS Index with the series of the CDS Index.
{DECIMAL-18/17}
34
Version
A new version of a series is issued if one of the constituents defaults and the index has to be re-weighted to account for the new number of total constituents within the index.
To be populated for a CDS Index or a derivative on a CDS Index with the version of the CDS Index.
{DECIMAL-18/17}
35
Roll months
All months when the roll is expected as established by the index provider for a given year. Field should be repeated for each month in the roll.
To be populated for a CDS Index or a derivative on a CDS Index.
‘01’, ‘02’, ‘03’, ‘04’, ‘05’, ‘06’, ‘07’, ‘08’, ‘09’, ‘10’, ‘11’, ‘12’
36
Next roll date
To be populated in the case of a CDS Index or a derivative on a CDS Index with the next roll date of the index as established by the index provider.
{DATEFORMAT}
37
Issuer of sovereign and public type
To be populated when the reference entity of a single name CDS or a derivative on single name CDS is a sovereign issuer as defined in Table 9.1 Section 9 of Annex III.
‘TRUE’ – the reference entity is an issuer of sovereign and public type
‘FALSE’ – the reference entity is not an issuer of sovereign and public type
38
Reference obligation
To be populated for a derivative on a single name credit default swap with the ISIN of the reference obligation.
{ISIN}
39
Reference entity
To be populated with the reference entity of a single name CDS or a derivative on single name CDS.
{COUNTRYCODE_2}
or
ISO 3166-2 - 2 character country code followed by dash “-“ and up to 3 alphanumeric character country subdivision code
or
{LEI}
40
Notional currency
Currency in which the notional is denominated.
{CURRENCYCODE_3}
