 
 

 

 

 Draft regulatory technical standards on the maintenance 

RTS 24:
of relevant data relating to orders in financial instruments  

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

479 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

 

of XXX 

 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the 
maintenance of relevant data relating to orders in financial instruments 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/20121 , and in particular the fourth subparagraph of Article 25(3) thereof,  

Whereas:  

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

Operators  of  trading  venues  should  be  free  to  determine  the  manner  in  which  they 
maintain  records  of  relevant  data  relating  to  all  orders  in  financial  instruments. 
However, in order to enable effective and efficient collation, comparison and analysis 
of the relevant order data for market monitoring purposes, such information needs to 
be available to the competent authorities in uniform standards and formats. Therefore, 
upon a request by a competent authority pursuant to Article 25(2) of Regulation (EU) 
No  600/2014,  the  relevant  order  data  should  be  converted  into  the  standards  and 
formats specified in this Regulation.  

The Annex to  this Regulation contains all data elements relating to  orders, including 
those  already  included  in  the  scope  of  Article  25(2)  of  Regulation  No  600/2014  by 
reference to Article 26(1) and (3) in order to ensure clarity, legal certainty and avoid 
double storage of the same information.  

In  order  to  detect  and  investigate  potential  or  attempted  market  abuse  effectively, 
competent  authorities  need  to  promptly  identify  persons  and  entities  who  may  be 
significantly  involved  in  the  order  process,  including  members  or  participants  of 
trading  venues,  entities  responsible  for  investment  and  execution  decisions,  non-
executing  brokers  and  clients  on  whose  behalf  orders  are  initiated.  Accordingly 
operators of trading venues should maintain designations for such parties. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 84. 

EN 

480 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

In order to allow competent authorities to more efficiently identify suspicious patterns 
of potentially abusive behaviour originating from one client, including where the client 
is  operating  through  a  number  of  investment  firms,  the  operators  of  trading  venues 
should  record  the  identity  of  clients  on  whose  behalf  their  members  or  participants 
submitted  the  order.  Operators  should  identify  those  clients  by  unique  identifiers  in 
order  to  facilitate  certain  and  efficient  identification  of  such  persons  and  thereby 
facilitate  more  effective  analysis  of  potential  market  abuse  in  which  clients  may  be 
involved. 

Operators of trading venues should not  be required to  record client  identifiers for  all 
clients  in  the  trading  chain  but  only  for  the  client  on  whose  behalf  the  member  or 
participant submitted the order.   

The  identification  of  market  making  strategies  or  similar  activities  is  important  in 
order to enable efficient detection of market manipulation. This allows the competent 
authorities to distinguish the order flow coming from an investment firm acting on the 
basis of terms  pre-determined by the issuer of the instrument  which is the subject  of 
the order or by the trading venue to which the order is submitted  from the order flow 
coming from an investment firm acting at its own or at its client’s discretion.  

The  record  of  the  precise  date  and  time  and  of  the  details  of  any  order  placement, 
modification, cancellation, rejection and execution should be maintained. This allows 
monitoring the changes to the order throughout its lifetime, that can be significant in 
detecting and assessing potential market manipulation and front running behaviours.  

To  ensure  an  accurate  and  complete  picture  of  the  order  book  of  a  trading  venue, 
competent  authorities  require  information  on  trading  sessions  in  which  financial 
instruments  are  traded.  This  information  can  notably  be  used  to  determine  when 
auction  periods  or  continuous  trading  start  and  finish  and  whether  orders  cause 
unscheduled circuit breakers. This information is also required to identify how orders 
will  interact,  particularly  when  sessions  end  at  random  periods  such  as  auctions. 
Information  on  indicative  uncrossing  prices  and  volumes  would  also  assist  in 
analysing  possible  auction  manipulation.  Given  that  a  single  order  can  impact  either 
the auction uncrossing price, auction uncrossing volume or both, competent authorities 
need  to  see  the  impact  of  each  order  on  these  values  as.  Without  this  information  it 
would  be  difficult  to  identify  which  order  has  had  the  impact  on  those  values. 
Additionally, a sequence number should be assigned to each relevant event in order to 
determine  the  sequence  of  events  when  two  or  more  events  take  place  at  the  same 
time.  

(9)

 

Specification  of  the  position  of  the  orders  in  an  order  book  allows  for  the 
reconstruction  of  the  order  book  and  for  analysis  of  the  sequence  of  execution  of 
orders  which  is  an  important  element  of  market  abuse  surveillance.  The  position 
assigned  to  an  order  depends  on  how  priority  is  determined  by  the  trading  system. 
Therefore,  operators  of  trading  venues  should  assign  and  maintain  details  of  the 

EN 

481 

EN 

 
 

 

 

priority of orders according to the price visibility-time priority or the size-time priority 
method. 

(10)

 

In order to enable effective market monitoring it is necessary to be able to link orders 
with their corresponding transactions. Accordingly operators of trading venues should 
maintain distinctive transaction identification codes linking orders to transactions.  

(11)

  Operators of trading venues should, for each order received,  record and  maintain the 
order  type  and  the  related  specific  instructions  which  together  determine  how  each 
order  is  to  be  handled  by  their  matching  engines,  in  accordance  with  their  own 
classifications.  This  detailed  information  is  essential  for  competent  authorities  to  be 
able  to  monitor,  as  part  of  its  market  abuse  surveillance,  trading  activity  in  a  given 
trading venue order book and in particular to replicate how each order behaves within 
the  order  book.  However,  given  the  broad  range  of  existing  and  potential  new  order 
types designed by operators of trading venues and the specific technicalities attached 
to  the latter, the maintenance of this detailed information  according to  the operators’ 
internal  classification  system  may  not  currently  allow  competent  authorities  to 
replicate  the  order  book  activity  of  all  trading  venues  in  a  consistent  manner. 
Therefore,  for  competent  authorities  to  be  in  a  position  to  exactly  locate  each  order 
within  the  order  book,  operators  of  trading  venues  should  also  classify  each  order 
received either as a limit order where the order is tradable or as a stop order where the 
order becomes tradable only upon the realisation of a pre-determined price event. 

(12)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(13)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2. 

(14)

  The application of this regulation should be deferred in order to align its applicability 

with the application of paragraph 2 of Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

482 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 1 

Scope, standards and format of relevant order data  

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  keep  at  the  disposal  of  their  competent  authority  the 
details of each order advertised through their systems set out in Articles 2 to 13 as specified in 
the  second  and  third  columns  of  Table  2  of  the  Annex  to  this  Regulation  insofar  as  they 
pertain to the order concerned. 

2.  Where competent authorities request any of the such details referred to in paragraph 1 in 
accordance  with  Article  25(2)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  the  operators  of  trading 
venues  shall  provide  such  details  using  the  standards  and  formats  prescribed  in  the  fourth 
columns of Table 2 of the Annex to this Regulation. 

 

Article 2 

Identification of the relevant parties 

1.  For all orders, operators of trading venues shall maintain the records on the following:  

(a)  the member or participant of the trading venue who  submitted the order to the trading 

venue, identified as prescribed in field 1 of Table 2 of the Annex; 

(b)  the person or computer algorithm within the member or participant of the trading venue 
to which an order is submitted that is responsible for the investment decision in relation 
to the order, identified as prescribed in field 4 of the Table 2 of the Annex;    

(c)  the person or computer algorithm within the member or participant of the trading venue 
that  is  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the  order,  identified  as  prescribed  in  field  5  of 
Table 2 of the Annex;  

(d)  the member or participant of the trading venue who routed the order on behalf of and in 
the  name  of  another  member  or  participant  of  the  trading  venue,  identified  as  a  non-
executing broker as prescribed in field 6 of Table 2 of the Annex;  

(e)  the client on whose behalf the member or participant of the trading venue submitted the 

order to the trading venue, identified as prescribed in field 3 of Table 2 of the Annex.  

2.  Where  a  member  or  participant  or  client  of  the  trading  venue  is  authorised  under  the 
legislation  of  a  Member  State  to  allocate  an  order  to  its  client  following  submission  of  the 
order to the trading  venue and has not  yet  allocated the order to  its client  at  the time of the 
submission of the order, that order shall be identified as prescribed in field 3 of the Annex.  

3.  Where several orders are submitted to the trading venue together as an aggregated order, 
the aggregated order shall be identified as prescribed in field 3 of Table 2 of the Annex.  

EN 

483 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Trading capacity of members or participants of the trading venue and liquidity 

provision activity  

Article 3 

1.  The trading capacity in which the member or participant of the trading venue submits an 
order shall be described as specified in field 7 of the Annex. 

2.  The following orders shall be identified as specified in field 8 of Table 2 of the Annex: 

(i)  an  order  submitted  to  a  trading  venue  by  a  member  or  participant  as  part  of  a 
market making strategy pursuant to Articles 17 and 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council 3; 

(ii)  an order submitted to a trading venue by a member or participant as part of any 
other liquidity provision activity carried out on the basis of terms pre-determined 
either by the issuer of the instrument which is the subject of the order or by that 
trading venue. 

 

Article 4 

Date and time recording 

1.  Operators of trading venues shall maintain a record of the date and time of the occurrence 
of each event listed in field 21 of Table 2 of the Annex with the level of accuracy prescribed 
by Article 2 of [RTS 25 on clock synchronization under Article 50 of Directive 2014/65/EU] 
as specified in field 9 of Table 2 of the Annex. Except for the recording of the date and time 
of  the  rejection  of  orders  by  trading  venue  systems,  all  events  referred  to  in  field  21  of  the 
Annex shall be recorded using the business clocks used by trading venue matching engines.  

2.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  a  record  of  the  date  and  time  for  each  data 
element  listed  in  fields  49,  50  and  51  of  Table  2  of  the  Annex,  with  the  level  of  accuracy 
prescribed by Article 2 of the [RTS 25 on clock synchronization under Article 50 of Directive 
2014/65/EU]. 

 

Article 5 

Validity period and order restrictions 

                                                 

3 Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial 
instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349). 

EN 

484 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  keep  a  record  of  the  validity  periods  and  order 
restrictions that are listed in fields 10 and 11 of Table 2 of the Annex.  

2.  Records  of  the  dates  and  times  in  respect  of  validity  periods  shall  be  maintained  as 
specified in field 12 of Table 2 of the Annex for each validity period. 

 

Article 6 

Priority and sequence numbers 

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  which  operate  trading  systems  on  a  price  visibility-time 
priority shall maintain a record of the priority time stamp for all orders as specified in field 13 
of Table 2 of the Annex. The priority time stamp shall be maintained with the same level of 
accuracy specified by Article 4(1). 

2.  Operators  of  trading  venues  which  operate  trading  systems  on  a  size-time  priority  basis 
shall maintain a record of the quantities which determine the priority of orders as specified in 
field 14 of Table 2 of the Annex as well as the priority time stamp referred to in paragraph 1.  

3.  Operators of trading venues which use a combination of price-visibility-time priority and 
size-time  priority  and  display  orders  on  their  order  book  in  time  priority  shall  comply  with 
paragraph 1.  

4.  Operators of trading venues which use a combination of price-visibility-time priority and 
size-time priority and displays orders on its order book in size-time priority shall comply with 
paragraph 2. 

5.  Operators of trading venues shall assign and maintain a sequence number for all events as 
specified in field 15 of Table 2 of the Annex.  

 

Article 7 

Identification codes for orders in financial instruments  

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  an  individual  identification  code  for  each 
order as specified in field 20 of Table 2 of the Annex. The identification code shall be unique 
per order book, per trading day and per financial instrument. It shall apply from the receipt of 
the  order  by  the  operator  of  the  trading  venue  until  the  removal  of the  order  from  the  order 
book. The identification code shall also apply to rejected orders irrespective of the ground for 
their rejection.  

2.  The  operator  of  the  trading  venue  shall  maintain  the  relevant  details  of  strategy  orders 
with  implied  functionality  (SOIF)  that  are  disseminated  to  the  public,  as  specified  in  the 

EN 

485 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex. Field 33 of Table 2 of the Annex shall include a statement that the order is an implicit 
order. 

Upon execution of a SOIF, its details shall be maintained by the operator of the trading venue 
as specified in the Annex.  

Upon execution of a SOIF, a strategy linked order identification code shall be indicated using 
the  same  identification  code  for  all  orders  connected  to  the  particular  strategy.  The  strategy 
linked  order  identification  code  shall  be  as  specified  provided  in  field  46  of  Table  2  of  the 
Annex.  

3.  Orders submitted to a trading venue allowing for a routing strategy shall be identified by 
that trading venue as “routed” as specified in field 33 of Table 2 of the Annex when they are 
routed  to  another  trading  venue.  Orders  submitted  to  a  trading  venue  allowing  for  a  routing 
strategy shall retain the same identification code for their lifetime, regardless of whether any 
remaining quantity is re-posted on the order book of entry. 

 

Article 8 

Events affecting the orders in financial instruments 

Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  a  record  of  the  details  referred  to  in  field  21  of 
Table 2 of the Annex in relation to the new orders.  

 

Article 9 

Type of order in financial instruments 

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  a  record  of  the  order  type  for  each  order 
received using their own classification as specified in field 22 of Table 2 of the Annex. 

2.  Operators of trading venues shall classify each received order either as a limit order or as 
a stop order as specified in field 23 of Table 2 of the Annex to this Regulation.   

 

Article 10 

Prices relating to orders 

Operators of trading venues shall maintain  a record of  all price related details  referred to  in 
section I of Table 2 in the Annex insofar as they pertain to the orders.  

 

EN 

Article 11 

486 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Order instructions 

Operators of trading venues shall maintain records of all order instructions received for each 
order as specified in section J of Table 2 of the Annex. 

 

Article 12 

Trading venue transaction identification code 

Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  an  individual  transaction  identification  code  for 
each transaction resulting from the full or partial execution of an order as specified in field 48 
of Table 2 of the Annex.  

 

Article 13 

Trading phases and indicative auction price and volume 

1.  Operators  of  trading  venues  shall  maintain  a  record  of  the  order  details  as  specified  in 
section K of Table 2 of the Annex.  

2.  Where competent authorities request details referred to in section K pursuant to Article 1, 
the  details  referred  to  in  fields  9,  15,  16,  17  and  18  of  Table  2  of  the  Annex  shall  also  be 
considered  as  details  pertaining  to  the  order  to  be  kept  at  the  disposal  of  the  competent 
authority.  

 

Article 14 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

 

This Regulation shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

EN 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

487 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

488 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex  

Table 1 

Legend for Table 2  

SYMBOL 

DATA TYPE 

DEFINITION 

{ALPHANUM-n}   Up to n 

Free text field. 

alphanumerical 
characters 

{CURRENCYCO
DE_3} 

3 alphanumerical 
characters 

3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency codes 

{DATE_TIME_FO
RMAT} 

ISO 8601 date 
and time format 

Date and time in the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.ddddddZ.  

- 
- 
- 
- 

‘YYYY’ is the year; 
‘MM’ is the month; 
‘DD’ is the day; 
‘T’ – means that the letter ‘T’ shall be used 

‘hh’ is the hour; 
‘mm’ is the minute; 
‘ss.dddddd’ is the second and its fraction of a second; 

- 
- 
- 
-  Z is UTC time.  

Dates and times shall be reported in UTC. 

{DATEFORMAT} 

ISO 8601 date 
format 

Dates shall be formatted by the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DD. 

{DECIMAL-n/m} 

{INTEGER-n} 

{ISIN} 

{LEI} 

{MIC} 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

Decimal number 
of up to n digits in 
total of which up 
to m digits can be 
fraction digits 

Integer number of 
up to n digits in 
total 

12 alphanumerical 
characters 

20 alphanumerical 
characters 

4 alphanumerical 
characters 

40 alphanumerical 
characters 

Numerical field for both positive and negative values. 

- 
- 
- 

decimal separator is '.' (full stop);  
negative numbers are prefixed with '-' (minus); 
values are rounded and not truncated. 

Numerical field for both positive and negative integer values. 

ISIN code as defined in ISO 6166 

Legal entity identifier as defined in ISO 17442 

Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383 

The identifier is that set out in Article 6 and Annex II of [RTS 22 on 
reporting obligations under Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014]. 

 

 

EN 

 

489 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Table 2 

Details of orders  

N. 

Field 

Content of the order details to be 
maintained at the disposal of the 
competent authority 

Standards and formats of the order 
details to be used when providing 
the relevant order data to 
competent authority upon request 

Section A - Identification of the relevant parties 

{LEI} 

 

'true' 
'false' 

{LEI} 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

‘AGGR’ – aggregated orders 

‘PNAL’ – pending allocations 

{NATIONAL_ID} - Natural persons 

 

{ALPHANUM-50} - Algorithms 

1 

2 

3 

Identification of 
the entity which 
submitted the 
order 

Direct Electronic 
Access (DEA) 

Client 
identification 
code 

4 

Investment 
decision within 
firm 

The identity of the member or participant 
of the trading venue. In case of Direct 
Electronic Access (DEA) the identity 
should be the one of the DEA provider.   

‘true’ where the order was submitted to the 
trading venue using DEA as defined in 
Article 4(1) (41) of Directive (EU) 
2014/65. 

‘false’ where the order was not submitted 
to the trading venue using DEA as defined 
in Article 4(1) (41) of Directive (EU) 
2014/65.   

Code used to identify the client of the 
member or participant of the trading 
venue. In case of DEA, the code of the 
DEA user should be provided. 

Where the client is a legal entity, the LEI 
code of the client shall be used. 

Where the client is not a legal entity, the 
{NATIONAL_ID} shall be used. 

In the case of aggregated orders, the flag 
AGGR shall be used. 

In case of pending allocations, the flag 
PNAL shall be used.  

This field shall be left blank only if the 
member or participant of the trading venue 
has no client. 

Code used to identify the person or the 
algorithm within the member or participant 
of the trading venue who is responsible for 
the investment decision.  

Where a natural person(s) within the 
member or participant of the trading venue 
is responsible for the investment decision 
the person who is responsible or has 
primary responsibility for the investment 
decision shall be identified with the 
{NATIONAL_ID} 

Where an algorithm is responsible for the 
investment decision the field shall be 
populated in accordance with Article 8 of 
[RTS 22 on transaction reporting under 
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014.] 

This field shall be left blank when the 

EN 

490 

EN 

 
{NATIONAL_ID} - Natural persons 

 

{ALPHANUM-50} - Algorithms 

 

 

 

5 

Execution within 
firm 

investment decision was not made by a 
person or algorithm within the member or 
participant of the trading venue.  

Code used to identify the person or 
algorithm within the member or participant 
of the trading venue who is responsible for 
the execution of the transaction resulting 
from the order. 

Where a natural person is responsible for 
the execution of the transaction, the person 
shall be identified by {NATIONAL_ID} 

Where an algorithm is responsible for the 
execution of the transaction, this field shall 
be populated in accordance with Article 9 
of [RTS 22 on transaction reporting under 
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014] 

Where more than one person or a 
combination of persons and algorithms are 
involved in the execution of the 
transaction, the member or participant or 
client of the trading venue shall determine 
the trader or algorithm primarily 
responsible as specified in Article 9(4) of 
[RTS on trading obligations under Article 
26 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014] and 
populate this field with the identity of that 
trader or algorithm. 

6 

Non-executing 
broker 

In accordance with Article 2(d). 

{LEI} 

This field shall be left blank when not 
relevant. 

Section B - Trading capacity and liquidity provision 

7 

Trading capacity 

8 

Liquidity 
provision activity 

Indication of whether the order submission 
resulted from the member or participant of 
the trading venue carrying out matched 
principal trading under Article 4(38) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU or dealing on own 
account under Article 4(6) of Directive 
2014/65/EU.  

Where the order submission did not result 
from the member or participants of the 
trading venue carrying out matched 
principal trading or dealing on own 
account, the field shall indicate that the 
transaction was carried out under any other 
capacity. 

Indication as to whether an order is 
submitted to a trading venue as part of a 
market making strategy pursuant to 
Articles 17 and 48 of Directive 
2014/65/EU or other activity in accordance 
with Article 3 of this Regulation. 

‘DEAL’ - Dealing on own account 

‘MTCH’ - Matched principal 

‘AOTC’ - Any other capacity 

'true' 
'false' 

Section C – Date and time 

9 

Date and Time  

 The date and time for each event listed in 
Section [G] and [K].  

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT} 

 

EN 

491 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Section D - Validity period and order restrictions 

10  Validity period 

 

11  Order restriction 

 

Good-For-Day: the order expires at the end 
of the trading day on which it was entered 
in the order book. 
 
Good-Till-Cancelled: the order will remain 
active in the order book and be executable 
until it is actually cancelled.  
 
Good-Till-Time: the order expires at the 
latest at a pre-determined time within the 
current trading session.  
 
Good-Till-Date: the order expires at the 
end of a specified date.  
 
Good-Till-Specified Date and Time: the 
order expires at a specified date and time. 
 
Good After Time: the order is only active 
after a pre-determined time within the 
current trading session. 
 
Good After Date: the order is only active 
from the beginning of a pre-determined 
date.  
 
Good After Specified Date and Time: the 
order is only active from a pre-determined 
time on a pre-determined date.  
 
Immediate-Or-Cancel: an order which is 
executed upon its entering into the order 
book (for the quantity that can be 
executed) and which does not remain in 
the order book for the remaining quantity 
(if any) that has not been executed. 
 
Fill-Or-Kill: an order which is executed 
upon its entering into the order book 
provided that it can be fully filled: in the 
event the order can only be partially 
executed, then it is automatically rejected 
and cannot therefore be executed. 
 
Other: any additional indications that are 
unique for specific business models, 
trading platforms or systems. 
Good For Closing Price Crossing Session: 
when an order qualifies for the closing 
price crossing session. 

Valid For Auction: the order is only active 

The number of digits after the 
‘seconds’ shall be determined in 
accordance with  Article 2 of [RTS 25 
on clock synchronisation under 
Article 50 of Directive 201/65/EU]. 

‘GDAY’ – Good-For-Day 

‘GTCA’ – Good-Till-Cancelled  

‘GTHT’ – Good-Till-Time  

‘GTHD’ – Good-Till-Date  

‘GTDT’ – Good-Till-Specified Date 
and Time  

‘GAFT’ – Good After Time  

‘GAFD’ – Good After Date  

‘GADT’ – Good After Specified Date 
and Time  

‘IOCA’ – Immediate-Or-Cancel or  

‘FIKI’ – Fill-Or-Kill  

or  

{ALPHANUM-4} characters not 
already in use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 

‘SESR’ – Good For Closing Price 
Crossing Session 

‘VFAR’ – Valid For Auction  

‘VFCR’ – Valid For Continuous 

EN 

492 

EN 

 
 

 

 

12  Validity period 

date and time 

 

Trading only  

{ALPHANUM-4} characters not 
already in use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 

If multiple types are applicable, this 
field shall be populated with multiple 
flags separated by comma 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT} 

 

The number of digits after the 
‘seconds’ is determined in accordance 
with Article 2 of [RTS 25 on clock 
synchronisation under Article 50 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU]. 

and can be executed only at auction phases 
(which can be pre-defined by the member 
or participants of the trading venue who 
submitted the order). 

Valid For Continuous Trading only: the 
order is only active during continuous 
trading. 

Other: any additional indications that are 
unique for specific business models, 
trading platforms or systems. 

 

This refers to the time stamp reflecting the 
time on which the order becomes active or 
it is ultimately removed from the order 
book. 

Good for day:  will be the date of entry 
with the timestamp immediately prior to 
midnight. 

Good till time:  will be the date of entry 
and the time to that specified in the order. 

Good till date:  will be the specified date 
of expiry with the timestamp immediately 
prior to midnight. 

Good till specified date and time:  will be 
the specified date and time of expiry. 

Good after time:  will be the date of entry 
and the specified time at which the order 
becomes active. 

Good after date:  will be the specified date 
with the timestamp immediately after 
midnight. 

Good after specified date and time:  will be 
the specified date and time at which the 
order becomes active. 

Good till Cancel:  will be the ultimate date 
and time the order is automatically 
removed by market operations. 

Other:  timestamp for any additional 
validity type. 

 

Section E – Priority and sequence number 

13 

Priority time 
stamp 

14 

Priority size 

This field shall be updated every time the 
priority of an order changes. 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT} 

 

The number of digits after the 
‘seconds’ is determined in accordance 
with Article 2 of [RTS on clock 
synchronisation under Article 50 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU]. 

Up to 20 numeric positive digits. 

For trading venues which use size-time 
priority, this field shall be populated with a 
positive number corresponding to the 
quantity. 

This field shall be updated every time the 

EN 

493 

EN 

 
 

 

 

15 

Sequence number 

priority of the order changes. 

 

Each and every event listed in section G 
shall be identified through a positive 
integer that is in ascending order. 

The sequence number shall be unique to 
each type of event; be consistent across all 
events timestamped by the operator of the 
trading venue; be persistent for the date 
that the event occurs. 

{INTEGER-50} 

Section F – Identification of the order  

16 

Segment MIC 
code 

Identification of the trading venue where 
the order was submitted. 

{MIC} 

If the trading venue uses segment MICs 
then the segment MIC shall be used.  

If the trading venue does not use segment 
MICs then the operating MIC shall be used 

The alphanumerical code established by 
the trading venue for each and every order 
book. 

{ALPHANUM-20} 

 

Unique and unambiguous identifier of the 
financial instrument 

{ISIN} 

17  Order book code 

18 

Financial 
instruments 
identification 
code 

19  Date of receipt 

Date of receipt of the original order. 

{DATEFORMAT} 

 

 

20  Order 

identification 
code  

An alphanumerical code assigned by the 
operator of the trading venue to the 
individual order. 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

Section G  – Events affecting the order   

21  New order, order 

modification, 
order 
cancellation, 
order rejections, 
partial or full 
execution 

 

New order: receipt of a new order by the 
operator of the trading venue. 

‘NEWO’ – New order 

‘TRIG’ – Triggered 

Triggered: an order which becomes 
executable or, as the case may be, non-
executable upon the realisation of a pre-
determined condition. 

Replaced by the member or participant of 
the trading venue: where a member or 
participant or client of the trading venue 
decides upon its own initiative to change 
any characteristic(s) of the order it has 
previously entered into the order book. 

Replaced by market operations 
(automatic): where any characteristic(s) of 
an order is changed by the trading venue 
operator’s IT systems. This includes where 
a peg order’s or a trailing stop order’s 
current characteristics are changed to 
reflect how the order is located within the 
order book. 

Replaced by market operations (human 
intervention): where any characteristic(s) 
of an order is changed by a trading venue 

or 

‘REME’ - Replaced by the member or 
participant of the trading venue 

or 

‘REMA’ - Replaced by market 
operations (automatic) 

or 

‘REMH’ - Replaced by market 
operations (human intervention) 

or 

‘CHME’ - Change of status at the 
initiative of the member or participant 
of the trading venue 

or 

‘CHMO’ - Change of status due to 
market operations  

or 

‘CAME’ - Cancelled at the initiative 
of the member or participant of the 

EN 

494 

EN 

 
 

 

 

operator’s staff. This includes where a 
member or participant or client of the 
trading venue has IT issues and needs its 
orders to be cancelled urgently. 

Change of status at the initiative of the 
member/participant of the trading venue. 
This includes activation, deactivation. 

trading venue 

or 

‘CAMO’ -Cancelled by market 
operations 

or 

‘REMO’ - Rejected order 

Change of status due to market operations.  

or 

Cancelled at the initiative of the member 
or participant of the trading venue; where a 
member or participant or client decides 
upon its own initiative to cancel the order 
it has previously entered. 

Cancelled by market operations. This 
includes a protection mechanism provided 
for investment firms carrying out a market 
making activity as per Articles 17 and 48 
of Directive 2014/65/EU. 

‘EXPI’ - Expired order 

or 

‘PARF’ - Partially filled 

or 

‘FILL’ - Filled 

or 

{ALPHANUM-4} characters not 
already in use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 

Rejected order: an order received but 
rejected by the operator of the trading 
venue.  

 

Expired order: where the order is removed 
from the order book upon the end of its 
validity period. 

Partially filled: where the order is not fully 
executed so that there remains a quantity 
to be executed. 

Filled: where there is no more quantity to 
be executed. 

Section H – Type of order 
22  Order type 

Identification of the order type as per 
venue specifications. 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

23  Order type 

classification 

Classification of the order according to 
two generic order types. LIMIT order: in 
the cases where the order is tradable  

The letters “LMTO” for limit or the 
letters “STOP” for stop. 

Section I – Prices 

24 

Limit price 

 and  

STOP order: in the cases where the order 
becomes tradable only upon the realisation 
of a pre-determined price event. 

The maximum price at which a buy order 
can trade or the minimum price at which a 
sell order can trade.  

The spread price for a strategy order. It can 
be negative or positive.  

For orders that do not have a limit price or 
for any unpriced orders this field shall be 
left blank.  

In case of a convertible bond the real price 
(clean or dirty) used for this transaction 
shall be reflected in this field 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the price 
is expressed as monetary value. 

Where price reported in monetary 
terms, it shall be provided in the major 
currency unit. 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price 
is expressed as a percentage or yield. 

25  Additional limit 

Price 

Any other limit price which may apply to 
the order. This field shall be left blank if 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the price 
is expressed as monetary. 

EN 

495 

EN 

 
 

 

 

not relevant. 

Where price reported in monetary 
terms, it shall be provided in the major 
currency unit. 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price 
is expressed as a percentage or yield. 

26 

Stop price 

The price that must be reached for the 
order to become active. 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the price 
is expressed as monetary. 

For stop orders triggered by events 
independent of the price of the financial 
instrument, this field shall be populated 
with a stop price equal to zero.  

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

27 

Pegged limit price  The maximum price at which a pegged 
order to buy can trade or the minimum 
price at which a pegged order to sell can 
trade. 

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

28 

Transaction price 

29 

Price currency 

30 

Currency of leg 2 

31 

Price notation 

Traded price of the transaction excluding, 
where applicable, commission and accrued 
interest. 

In the case of option contracts, it shall be 
the premium of the derivative contract per 
underlying security or index point. 

In the case of spread bets it shall be the 
reference price of the direct underlying 
instrument. 

For credit default swaps (CDS) it shall be 
the coupon in basis points.  

Where price reported in monetary terms, it 
shall be provided in the major currency 
unit. 

Where price is not applicable the field 
shall not be populated. 

Currency in which the trading price is 
expressed (applicable if the price is 
expressed as monetary value) for the 
financial instrument related to the order. 

In the case of multi-currency or cross-
currency swaps the currency in which leg 
2 of the contract is denominated. 

For swaptions where the underlying swap 
is  multi-currency,  the currency in which 
leg 2 of the swap is denominated. This 
field is only applicable to interest rate and 
currency derivatives contracts 

Indication as to whether the price is 
expressed in monetary value, in percentage 
or in yield 

Where price reported in monetary 
terms, it shall be provided in the major 
currency unit. 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price 
is expressed as a percentage or yield. 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the price 
is expressed as monetary. 

Where price reported in monetary 
terms, it shall be provided in the major 
currency unit. 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price 
is expressed as a percentage or yield. 

{DECIMAL-18/13 in case the price is 
expressed as monetary. 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price 
is expressed as percentage or yield 

 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

‘MONE’ – Monetary 

‘PERC’ – Percentage 

‘YIEL’ – Yield 

EN 

496 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Section J – Order instructions 

32 

Buy-sell indicator  To show if the order is to buy or sell. 

‘BUYI’ – buy 

‘SELL’ – sell   

In case of options and swaptions, the buyer 
shall be the counterparty that holds the 
right to exercise the option and the seller 
shall be the counterparty that sells the 
option and receives a premium. 

In case of futures and forwards other than 
futures and forwards relating to currencies, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty buying 
the instrument and the seller the 
counterparty selling the instrument. 

In the case of swaps relating to securities, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty that 
gets the risk of price movement of the 
underlying security and receives the 
security amount. The seller shall be the 
counterparty paying the security amount. 

In the case of swaps related to interest 
rates or inflation indices, the buyer shall be 
the counterparty paying the fixed rate. The 
seller shall be the counterparty receiving 
the fixed rate. In case of basis swaps 
(float-to-float interest rate swaps), the 
buyer shall be the counterparty that pays 
the spread and the seller the counterparty 
that receives the spread. 

In the case of swaps and forwards related 
to currencies and of cross currency swaps, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty 
receiving the currency which is first when 
sorted alphabetically by ISO 4217 standard 
and the seller shall be the counterparty 
delivering this currency. 

In the case of swap related to dividends, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty 
receiving the equivalent actual dividend 
payments. The seller is the counterparty 
paying the dividend and receiving the 
fixed rate. 

In the case of derivative instruments for 
the transfer of credit risk except options 
and swaptions, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty buying the protection. The 
seller is the counterparty selling the 
protection. 

In case of derivative contracts related to 
commodities, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that receives the commodity 
specified in the report and the seller the 
counterparty delivering this commodity. 

In case of forward rate agreements, the 
buyer shall be the counterparty paying the 
fixed rate and the seller the counterparty 
receiving the fixed rate 

EN 

497 

EN 

 
 

 

 

33  Order status 

 

For an increase in notional the buyer shall 
be the same as the acquirer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction and 
the seller shall be the same as the disposer 
of the financial instrument in the original 
transaction. 

For a decrease in notional the buyer shall 
be the same as the disposer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction and 
the seller shall be the same as the acquirer 
of the financial instrument in the original 
transaction. 

To identify orders that are 
active/inactive/suspended, firm/indicative 
(assigned to quotes only)/implicit/rerouted. 

Active – non-quote orders that are 
tradable. 

Inactive – non-quote orders that are not 
tradable. 

Firm/Indicative - Assigned to quotes only. 
Indicative quotes mean that they are 
visible but cannot be executed. This 
includes warrants in some trading venue. 
Firm quotes can be executed. 

Implicit – Used for strategy orders that are 
derived from implied in or implied out 
functionality. 

Routed – Used for orders that are routed 
by the trading venue to other venues. 

 

’ACTI’- active  

or  

’INAC’- inactive 

 or 

 ’FIRM’- firm quotes  

or  

’INDI’- indicative quotes 

 or 

’IMPL’- implied strategy orders 

 or 

’ROUT’- routed orders. 

If multiple statuses are applicable, this 
field shall be populated with multiple 
flags separated by comma. 

34  Quantity notation 

Indication as to whether the quantity 
reported is expressed in number of units, in 
nominal value or in monetary value. 

‘UNIT’ - Number of units 

‘NOML’ - Nominal value 

‘MONE’ - Monetary value 

35  Quantity currency  Currency in which the quantity is 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

expressed. 

 (Only applicable if quantity is expressed 
as nominal or monetary value). 

36 

Initial quantity 

The number of units of the financial 
instrument, or the number of derivative 
contracts in the order. 

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

The nominal or monetary value of the 
financial instrument. 

For spread bets, the quantity shall be the 
monetary value wagered per point 
movement in the underlying financial 
instrument. 

For increase or decrease in notional 
derivative contracts, the number shall 
reflect the absolute value of the change 
and shall be expressed as a positive 
number. 

For credit default swaps, the quantity shall 
be the notional amount for which the 
protection is acquired or disposed of. 

EN 

498 

EN 

 
 

 

 

37 

Remaining 
quantity including 
hidden 

The total quantity that remains in the order 
book after a partial execution or any other 
event affecting the order.  

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

On a partial fill order event this is the total 
remaining volume after that partial 
execution. On an order entry this will 
equal the initial quantity. 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

38  Displayed 

quantity 

The quantity that is visible (as opposed to 
hidden) in the order book. 

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

39 

Traded quantity 

Where there is a partial or full execution 
this field shall be populated with the 
executed quantity.  

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

40  Minimum 

Acceptable 
Quantity (MAQ) 

41  Minimum 

executable size 
(MES) 

This is the minimum acceptable quantity 
for an order to be filled which can consist 
of multiple partial executions and is 
normally only for non-persistent order 
types. 

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

This is the minimum execution size of any 
individual potential execution.  

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

 {DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

42  MES first 

execution only 

Specification as to whether the MES is 
relevant only for the first execution. 

'true' 
'false' 

43  

Passive only 
indicator 

44 

Passive or 
aggressive 
indicator 

This field shall be left blank if field 41 is 
not populated. 

Indicates if the order is submitted to the 
trading venue with a characteristic/flag, 
such that the order shall not immediately 
execute against any contra visible orders. 

On partial fill and fill order events, 
indicates whether the order was already 
resting on the order book and providing 
liquidity (passive) or the order initiated the 
trade and thus took liquidity (aggressive). 

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

'true' 
'false' 

 

“PASV” – passive or  

“AGRE” – aggressive. 

45 

Self-Execution 
Prevention 

Indicates if the order has been entered with 
self-execution prevention criteria so that it 
would not execute with an order on the 
opposite side of the book entered by the 
same member or participant. 

'true' 
'false' 

46 

Strategy Linked 
Order 

The alphanumerical code used to link all 
connected orders that are part of a strategy 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

EN 

499 

EN 

 
 

 

 

identification 

pursuant to Article 7(2) of this Regulation. 

47 

Routing Strategy 

The applicable routing strategy as per the 
trading venue specification. 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

48 

Trading venue 
transaction 
identification 
code  

{ALPHANUM-52} 

This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

Alphanumerical code assigned by the 
trading venue to the transaction pursuant to 
Article 12 of this Regulation. 

The trading venue transaction 
identification code shall be unique, 
consistent and persistent per ISO10383 
segment MIC and per trading day. Where 
the trading venue does not use segment 
MICs, the trading venue transaction 
identification code shall be unique, 
consistent and persistent per operating 
MIC per trading day. 

The components of the transaction 
identification code shall not disclose the 
identity of the counterparties to the 
transaction for which the code is 
maintained. 

Section K – Trading phases, indicative auction price and volume 

49 

Trading phases  

50 

 

Indicative auction 
price 

The name of each of the different trading 
phases during which an order is present in 
the order book including trading halts, 
circuit breakers and suspensions. 

The price at which each auction is due to 
uncross in respect to the financial 
instrument for which one or more orders 
have been placed. 

51 

 

Indicative auction 
volume 

The volume (number of units of the 
financial instrument) that can be executed 
at the indicative auction price in field 50 if 
the auction ended at that precise moment 
of time.  

{ALPHANUM-50} 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the price is 
expressed as monetary or nominal 
value. 

Where price reported in monetary 
terms, it shall be provided in the major 
currency unit. 

DECIMAL-11/10} in case the price is 
expressed as a percentage or yield. 

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number of 
units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 

 

 

EN 

 

500 

EN 

 
 

 
