
RTS 28:
27(10)(b) of MiFID II 

 

 

  

  

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

 

  

 

EN 

 

538 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the annual 

publication by investment firms of information on the identity of execution 

venues and on the quality of execution 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,  

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on 
markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2004/92/EC  and  Directive 
2011/61/EU1 , and in particular point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 27(10) 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

It  is  essential  to  enable  the  public  and  investors  to  evaluate  the  quality  of  an 
investment firm’s execution practices and the identity of the top five execution venues 
in terms of trading volumes where those investment firms executed client orders in the 
preceding  year.  In  order  to  make  meaningful  comparisons  and  analyse  the  choice  of 
top five execution venues it is necessary that information be published by investment 
firms specifically in respect of each class of financial instruments. In order to be able 
to fully evaluate the order flow of client orders to execution venues, investors and the 
public  should  be  able  to  clearly  identify  where  the  investment  firm  itself  was  one  of 
the top five execution venues for each  class of financial instrument. 

In  order  to  fully  assess  the  extent  of  the  quality  of  execution  being  obtained  on 
execution  venues  used  by  investment  firms  to  execute  client  orders,  including 
execution  venues  in  third  countries,  it  is  appropriate  to  require  investment  firms  to 
publish  information  required  under  this  Regulation  in  relation  to  trading  venues, 
market  makers  or  other  liquidity  providers  or  any  entity  that  performs  a  similar 
function in a third country to the functions performed by any of the foregoing. 

(3)

 

In order to provide very precise and comparable information, it is necessary to set out 
classes of financial instruments  based on their characteristics relevant  for publication 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

 

539 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

purposes.  A  class  of  financial  instruments  should  be  narrow  enough  to  reveal 
differences  in  order  execution  behaviour  between  classes  but  at  the  same  time  broad 
enough  to  ensure  that  the  reporting  obligation  on  investment  firms  is  proportionate. 
Given  the  breadth  of  the  equity  class  of  financial  instruments,  it  is  appropriate  to 
divide this class into subclasses based on liquidity. As liquidity is  an essential  factor 
governing execution behaviours and as execution venues are often competing to attract 
flows of the most frequently traded stocks, it is appropriate that equity instruments are 
classified  according  to  their  liquidity  as  determined  under  the  tick  size  regime  as  set 
out under Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. 

(4)

  When publishing the identity of the top five execution venues on which they execute 
client  orders  it  is  appropriate  for  investment  firms  to  publish  information  about  the 
volume and number of orders executed on each execution venue, so that investors may 
be able to  form  an opinion as to  the flow of client  orders from  the firm  to  execution 
venue. Where, for one or several classes of financial instruments, an investment firm 
only  executes  a  very  small  number  of  orders,  information  on  the  top  five  execution 
venues  would  not  be  very  meaningful  nor  representative  of  order  execution 
arrangements. It is therefore appropriate to require investment firms to clearly indicate 
the  classes  of  financial  instruments  for  which  they  execute  a  very  small  number  of 
orders. 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

To  prevent  potentially  market  sensitive  disclosures  on  the  volume  of  business  being 
conducted  by  the  investment  firm,  the  volume  of  execution  and  the  number  of 
executed  orders  should  be  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  the  investment  firm’s  total 
execution volumes and number of executed orders in that class of financial instrument, 
respectively, rather than as absolute values.  

It is appropriate to require investment firms to publish information which is relevant to 
their  order  execution  behaviour.  To  ensure  that  investment  firms  are  not  held 
accountable  for  order  execution  decisions  for  which  they  are  not  responsible,  it  is 
appropriate for them to disclose the percentage of orders executed on each of the top 
five  execution  venues  where  the  choice  of  execution  venue  has  been  specified  by 
clients.  

There  are  several  factors  which  may  potentially  influence  the  order  execution 
behaviour  of  investment  firms  such  as  close  links  between  investment  firms  and 
execution  venues.  Given  the  potential  materiality  of  these  factors  it  is  appropriate  to 
require  analysis  of  such  factors  in  assessing  the  quality  of  execution  obtained  on  all 
execution venues. 

The  different  order  types  can  be  an  important  factor  explaining  how  and  why 
investment  firms  are  executing  their  orders  on  a  given  execution  venue.  It  also  may 
impact  the  way  an  investment  firm  will  set  its  execution  strategies  including 
programming  of  smart  order  routers  to  meet  those  orders’  specific  purposes.  It  is 

EN 

 

540 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(9)

 

(10)

therefore appropriate that a distinction between those categories be clearly marked in 
the report.  

In order to properly analyse information it is important that users are in a position to 
differentiate between the execution venues used for professional client orders and for 
retail client orders, given the notable differences in how firms obtain the best possible 
result  for  retail  clients  as  compared  to  professional  clients,  namely  that  investment 
firms  must predominantly  assess the factors  of price  and  cost  when executing orders 
from retail clients. It is therefore appropriate that information on the top five execution 
venues  be  provided  distinctly  for  retail  clients  and  professional  clients  so  that  that  a 
qualitative assessment can be made of the order flow to such venues.  

  Securities  financing  transactions  include  a  variety  of  secured  transactions  such  as 
lending  or  borrowing  securities,  repurchase  or  reverse  repurchase  transactions  and 
buy-sell  back  or  sell-buy  back  transactions.  Securities  lending  is  primarily  driven  by 
demand  for  specific  securities  and  is  used,  for  instance,  in  transactions  where 
securities are used to borrow or to lend cash or settlement purposes. SFTs are therefore 
used as a source of funding, for liquidity, and collateral management. The rationale for 
those transactions is therefore specific: in such transactions, securities are not bought 
or sold for their expected price movements but sought after or provided as collateral, 
making  their  economic  justification  very  different  from  other  types  of  transactions. 
Due  to  the  specific  nature  of  securities  financing  transactions,  and  given  that  their 
large  size  would  likely  distort  the  more  representative  set  of  client  transactions  (i.e. 
those  not  involving  securities  financing  transactions),  it  is  necessary  to  maintain 
separate  evidence  of  such  executions.  To  this  effect,  investment  firms  executing 
securities financing transactions should not include them in the same table concerning 
the top five execution venues on which they execute other client orders. It is therefore 
appropriate  that  investment  firms  summarise  and  make  public  the  top  five  execution 
venues  in  terms  of  trading  volumes  where  they  executed  securities  financing 
transactions  in  a  separate  report  so  that  that  a  qualitative  assessment  can  be  made  of 
the order flow to such venues. 

(11)

 

It  is  appropriate  that  investment  firms  should  publish  an  assessment  of  quality  of 
execution  obtained  on  all  venues  used  by  the  firm.  This  information  will  provide  a 
clear  picture  of  the  execution  strategies  and  tools  used  to  assess  the  quality  of 
execution  obtained  on  those  venues.  This  information  will  also  allow  investors  to 
assess the effectiveness of the monitoring carried out by investment firms in relation to 
those execution venues.    

(12)

 

In specifically  assessing  the quality of  execution obtained on all execution venues in 
relation to cost, it is appropriate that investment firms also perform an analysis of the 
arrangements it has with these venues in relation to payments made or received and to 
discounts, rebates or non-monetary benefits received. Such an assessment should also 

EN 

 

541 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(13)

 

(14)

 

(15)

 

allow  the  public  to  consider  how  such  arrangements  impact  the  costs  faced  by  the 
investor and how they comply with Article 27(2) of Directive 2004/65/EC.  

It  is  also  appropriate  to  determine  the  scope  of  such  publication  and  its  essential 
features, including the use that investment firms make of the data on execution quality 
available from execution venues under Regulation **(RTS under 27(10)(a)). 

Information on identity of execution venues and on the quality of execution should be 
published annually  and refer to  order execution behaviour  for  each class  of financial 
instruments in order to capture relevant changes within the preceding calendar year.  

Investment  firms  should  not  be  prevented  from  adopting  an  additional  level  of 
reporting which is more granular, provided that in such case the additional report does 
not replace but complements what is required in this Regulation. 

(16)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date. 

(17)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission.  

(18)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Scope of the Regulation 

This  Regulation  shall  apply  to  investment  firms  in  relation  to  client  orders    executed  on 
trading venues, systematic internalisers, market makers or other liquidity providers or entities 
that perform a similar function to those performed by any of the foregoing in a third country. 
                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

 

542 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Article 2 

Information on the top five execution venues and quality of execution obtained 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  publish  for  each  class  of  financial  instruments  as  referred  to  in 
Annex  1,  the  top  five  execution  venues  in  terms  of  trading  volumes  for  all  executed  client 
orders  for  retail  clients,  excluding  orders  in  Securities  Financing  Transactions,  as  set  out  in 
Annex II (Table 1) the following information: 

(a)  class of financial instruments;  

(b)  venue name and identifier;  

(c)  volume of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed volume; 

(d)  number of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed orders; 

(e)  percentage  of  the  executed  orders  referred  to  in  point  (d)  that  were  passive  and 

aggressive orders; 

(f)  percentage of orders referred to in point (d) that were directed orders;  

(g)  notification  of  whether  it  has  executed  an  average  of  less  than  one  trade  per  business 

day in the previous year in that class of financial instruments. 

2. 
Investment  firms  shall  publish  for  each  class  of  financial  instruments  as  referred  to  in 
Annex  1,  the  top  five  execution  venues  in  terms  of  trading  volumes  for  all  executed  client 
orders  for  professional  clients,  excluding  orders  in  Securities  Financing  Transactions,  as  set 
out in Annex II (Table 2)  the following information: 

(a)  class of financial instruments;  

(b)  venue name and identifier;  

(c)  volume of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed volume; 

(d)  number of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed orders; 

(e)  percentage  of  the  executed  orders  referred  to  in  point  (d)  that  were  passive  and 

aggressive orders; 

EN 

 

543 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(f)  percentage of orders referred to in point (d) that were directed orders 

(g)  notification  of  whether  it  has  executed  an  average  of  less  than  one  trade  per  business 

day in the previous year in that class of financial instruments 

3. 
Investment  firms  shall  publish  for  each  class  of  financial  instruments  as  referred  to  in 
Annex  1,  the  top  five  execution  venues  in  terms  of  trading  volumes  for  all  executed  client 
orders  in  Securities  Financing  Transactions,    as  set  out  in  Annex  II  (Table  3)  the  following 
information: 

(a)  volume of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed volume; 

(b)  number of client orders executed on that execution venue expressed as a percentage of 

total executed orders; 

(c)  notification where it has executed an average of less than one trade per business day in 

the previous year in that class of financial instruments. 

4.  An  investment  firm  shall  publish  for  each  class  of  financial  instruments,  a  summary  of 
the analysis and conclusions it draws from its detailed monitoring of the quality of execution 
obtained on the execution venues where it executed all client orders in the previous year. This 
information shall include: 

(a)  an explanation of the relative importance the firm gave to the execution factors of price, 
costs,  speed,  likelihood  of  execution  or  any  other  consideration  including  qualitative 
factors when making assessments of the quality of execution;  

(b)  a  description  of  any  close  links,  conflicts  of  interests,  and  common  ownerships  with 

respect to any execution venues used to execute orders;  

(c)  a  description  of  any  specific  arrangements  with  any  execution  venues  regarding 

payments made or received, discounts, rebates or non-monetary benefits received;  

(d)  an explanation of the factors that led to a change in the list of execution venues listed in 

the firm’s execution policy, if such a change occurred; 

(e)  an explanation of how order execution differs according to client categorisation, where 
the  firm  treats  such  category  of  client  differently  and  where  it  may  affect  the  order 
execution arrangements;  

(f)  an explanation of when other criteria were given precedence over immediate price and 
cost when executing retail client orders and how these other criteria were instrumental 
in delivering the best possible result in terms of the total consideration to the client; 

EN 

 

544 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(g)  an  explanation  of  how  the  investment  firm  has  used  any  data  or  tools  relating  to  the 
quality  of  execution  including  any  data  published  under  27(10)(a)  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU.  

(h)  An  explanation  of  how  the  investment  firm  has  used,  if  applicable,  output  of  a 
consolidated tape provider established under Article 65 of Directive 2014/65/EU which 
will allow for the development of enhanced measures of execution quality or any other 
algorithms used to optimise and assess execution performances. 

5.  For the purpose of this Article: 

(a)  passive order means an order entered onto the order book that provided liquidity,  

(b)  aggressive order means an order entered onto the order book that took liquidity, and 

(c)  directed  order  means  an  order  where  a  specific  execution  venue  was  specified  by  the 

client prior to the execution of the order. 

 

Article 3 

Format  

Investment firms shall publish the information required in accordance with Article 2(1) to (4) 
on  their  websites,  by  filling  in  the  templates  set  out  in  Annex  II,  in  a  machine-readable 
electronic format, available for downloading by the public and the information in accordance 
with Article 2(4) in an electronic format available for downloading by the public.  

 

Article 4 

Entry into force 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

 

EN 

 

545 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position]

EN 

 

546 

  EN 

 
 

 

 
