 
 

 

 

CHAPTER 7: MARKET DATA REPORTING  

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  reporting 

RTS 22:
obligations under Article 26 of MiFIR  

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

422 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the 

reporting of transactions to competent authorities 

 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/2012, and in particular the third subparagraph of Article 26(9) thereof,  

Whereas:  

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

For  the  purposes  of  effective  data  analysis  by  competent  authorities,  there  should  be 
consistency in the standards and formats used when reporting transactions .  

Given  market  practices,  supervisory  experience  and  market  developments,  the 
meaning  of  a  transaction  for  reporting  purposes  should  be  broad  and  not  be 
exhaustively defined.  It should cover purchases and sales of reportable instruments as 
well as other cases of acquisition or disposal of reportable instruments,  as these may 
also give rise to market abuse concerns. Furthermore, changes to notional amount may 
give rise to market abuse concerns as they are similar in nature to additional purchase 
or  sale  transactions.  In  order  for  competent  authorities  to  distinguish  those  changes 
from  other  purchases  or  sales,  those  changes  should  be  specifically  reported  in 
transaction reports.  

However, the concept of a transaction should not include acts or events which do not 
need to be reported to competent authorities for market surveillance purposes. In order 
to ensure that such acts and events are filtered out of transaction reporting, they should 
be specifically excluded from the meaning of a transaction.    

For  the  purposes  of  clarifying  which  investment  firms  are  required  to  report 
transactions,  the  activities  or  services  which  lead  to  a  transaction  should  be  defined. 
Accordingly,  an  investment  firm  should  be  considered  to  be  executing  a  transaction 
where  it  performs  a  service  or  activity  referred  to  in  points  1  to  3  of  Section  A  of 
Annex I of [Directive 2014/65/EU], makes the investment decision in accordance with 

EN 

423 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

a discretionary mandate given by a client, or transfers financial instruments to or from 
accounts,  provided  in  each  case  that  such  services  or  activities  have  resulted  in  a 
transaction.  However,  by  way  of  exception  in  accordance  with  Article  26(4)  of 
Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  investment  firms  which  are  considered  to  have 
transmitted  orders  which  result  in  transactions  should  be  considered  to  have  not 
executed those transactions.   

In order to avoid non-reporting or double reporting by investment firms who transmit 
orders  to  each  other,  they  should  agree  whether  the  firm  receiving  the  transmitted 
order will report all the details  in  its  transaction report of the resulting transaction or 
transmit the order onwards to another investment firm. In the absence of an agreement 
and to avoid non-reporting or double reporting, the transmitting firm should submit its 
own  transaction  report  which  includes  all  the  details  of  the  resulting  transaction  and 
the  receiving  firm  should  submit  a  transaction  report  which  does  not  include  the 
transmitted  details.    Moreover,  the  details  relating  to  the  order  to  be  transmitted 
between firms  should be prescribed in  order to  ensure that the relevant,  accurate and 
complete information ultimately reaches competent authorities.    

For  the  purpose  of  ensuring  certain  and  efficient  identification  of  investment  firms 
responsible  for  execution  of  transactions,  those  firms  should  ensure  that  they  are 
identified  in  the  transaction  report  submitted  pursuant  to  their  transaction  reporting 
obligation using validated, issued and duly renewed legal entity identifiers (LEIs).  

In order to ensure consistent and robust identification of natural persons referred to in 
transaction reports, they should be identified by a concatenation of the country of their 
nationality  followed  by  identifiers  assigned  by  the  country  of  nationality  of  those 
persons.  Where  those  identifiers  are  not  available,  it  is  necessary  to  identify  natural 
persons by identifiers created from a concatenation of their date of birth and name.  

In  order  to  facilitate  market  surveillance,  client  identification  should  be  consistent, 
unique and robust.  Transaction reports should therefore include the full name and date 
of  birth  of  clients  who  are  natural  persons  and  should  identify  clients  who  are  legal 
entities by their LEIs.   

Persons  or computer algorithms which make investment decisions may be responsible 
for  market  abuse.  Therefore,  in  order  to  ensure  effective  market  surveillance,  where 
investment  decisions  are  made  by  a  person  other  than  the  client  or  by  a  computer 
algorithm, the persons or algorithm should be identified in the transaction report using 
unique,  robust  and  consistent  identifiers.  Where  more  than  one  person  in  an 
investment  firm  makes  the  investment  decision,  the  person  taking  the  primary 
responsibility for the decision should be identified in the report.  

(10)

  The persons or computer algorithms responsible for  determining the venue to access, 
which firms to transmit the orders to or any other conditions related to the execution of 
the  order  can  thereby  be  responsible  for  market  abuse.  Therefore,  in  order  to  ensure 

EN 

424 

EN 

 
 

 

 

effective  market  surveillance,  a  person  or  computer  algorithm  within  the  investment 
firm that is responsible for the above activities should be identified in the transaction 
report.  Where  both  a  person  and  computer  algorithm  are  involved,  or  more  than  one 
person or algorithm is involved, the investment firm should determine, on a consistent 
basis,  which  person  or  algorithm  is  primarily  responsible  for  undertaking  those 
activities.   

(11)

 

In  order  to  enable  effective  market  monitoring,  transaction  reports  should  include 
exact  information  on  any  change  in  the  position  of  an  investment  firm  or  its  client 
resulting  from  a  reportable  transaction  at  the  time  such  transaction  took  place. 
Therefore  investment  firms  should  report  related  fields  in  an  individual  transaction 
report consistently and should report a transaction or different legs of a transaction in 
such  manner  that  collectively  their  reports  provide  a  clear  overall  picture  which 
accurately reflects changes in position.  

(12)

  Effective  market surveillance in the case of a transaction in a combination of financial 
instruments  presents  particular  challenges  for  market  surveillance.  The  competent 
authority  needs  to  have  the  global  view  and  also  be  able  to  see  separately  the 
transaction  in  respect  of  each  financial  instrument  that  is  part  of  a  transaction  in  a 
combination  of  financial  instruments.  Therefore,  investment  firms  which  execute 
transactions in a combination of financial instruments should report the transaction for 
each  financial  instrument  separately  and  link  those  reports  by  an  identifier  that  is 
unique  at  the  level  of  the  firm  to  the  group  of  transaction  reports  related  to  that 
execution. 

(13)

 

In order to safeguard the effectiveness of market  abuse surveillance of legal persons, 
Member  States  should  ensure  that  LEIs  are  developed,  attributed  and  maintained  in 
accordance with internationally established principles. For similar reasons, investment 
firms  should  obtain  their  clients’  LEIs  from  their  clients  before  providing  services 
which would trigger reporting obligations in respect of transactions effected on behalf 
of those clients.   

(14)

  Efficient  and  effective  market  monitoring  requires  that  transaction  reports  be 
submitted once only and to a single competent authority who can route them to other 
relevant  competent  authorities.  Therefore,  where  an  investment  firm  executes  a 
transaction,  it  should  report  the  transaction  once  only,  and  that  report  should  be 
submitted  to  its  home  competent  authority.  The  principle  of  single  reporting  should 
apply  irrespective  of  whether  the  reporting  firm  executed  the  transaction  through  a 
branch in another Member State. Moreover, where a transaction is executed wholly or 
partly  through  a  branch  of  an  investment  firm  located  in  another  Member  State,  the 
principle of reporting to the home Member State of the investment firm should apply 
unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  competent  authorities  of  the  home  and  host  Member 
States.  In  order  to  ensure  that  host  competent  authorities  can  supervise  the  services 
provided  by  branches  within  their  territory,  they  will  need  to  receive  transaction 
reports of activity by branches of investment firms. For this reason and to allow for the 

EN 

425 

EN 

 
 

 

 

transaction  reports  to  be  routed  to  all  the  relevant  competent  authorities  for  the 
branches that take part in those transactions it is necessary to include granular data on 
branch activity in the reports. 

(15)

  Complete  and  accurate  transaction  reporting  data  is  essential  to  market  abuse 
surveillance. Therefore trading venues and investment firms should have methods and 
arrangements  to  ensure  complete  and  accurate  transaction  reports  are  submitted  to 
competent authorities.   

(16)

  Determination  of the most relevant market in terms of liquidity enables the routing of 
transaction reports to other competent authorities and enables investors to identify the 
competent  authorities  to  whom  they  must  report  their  short  positions  pursuant  to 
Articles 5, 7 and 8 of Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of 
the  Council  .  The  rules  for  determining  which  is  the  relevant  competent  authority 
under  Directive  2004/39/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council    work 
effectively  for  most  financial  instruments  and  should,  therefore,  remain  unchanged. 
However, new rules should be introduced specifically for those instruments which are 
not  covered  by  Directive  2004/39/EC,  namely  for  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  non-
EEA  entity  and  for  derivatives  for  which  the  immediate  underlying  has  no  global 
identifier, is a basket or a non-EEA index. 

(17)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(18)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council1.  

(19)

  The application of this Regulation should be deferred in order to align its applicability 
with  the  application  of  paragraphs  1  to  8  of  Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

                                                 

Article 1 

1  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

426 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Data standards and formats for transaction reporting  

1.  A transaction report shall be provided using all details specified in Table 2 of the Annex 
that  pertain  to  the  transaction  concerned,  and    The  information  shall  be  provided  using  the 
data standards and formats specified in Table 2 Annex I. 

2.  Transaction  reports  shall  be  provided  in  an  electronic  and  machine-readable  form  and 
common XML template in accordance with the ISO 20022 methodolog y. 

 

Article 2 

Meaning of transaction  

1.  For  the  purposes  of  Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  the  conclusion  of    an 
acquisition  or  disposal  of  a  financial  instrument  referred  to  in  Article  26(2)  of  Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014 shall constitute a transaction. 

2.  An acquisition referred to in paragraph 1 shall include: 

(a)  a purchase of a financial instrument; 

(b)  entering into a derivative contract in a financial instrument; 

(c)  an  increase  in  the  notional  amount  for  a  derivative  contract  that  is  a  financial 

instrument. 

3.  A disposal referred to in paragraph 1 shall include: 

(a)  sale of a financial instrument; 

(b)  closing out of a derivative contract in a financial instrument; 

(c)  a decrease in the notional amount for a derivative contract that is a financial instrument.  

4.  For  the  purposes  of  Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  transaction  shall  also 
include  a  simultaneous  acquisition  and  disposal  of  a  financial  instrument  where  there  is  no 
change  in  the  ownership  of  that  financial  instrument,  but  post-trade  publication  is  required 
under Articles 6, 10, 20 or 21 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. 

5.  A  transaction  for  the  purposes  of  Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  shall  not 
include: 

(a)  a  securities  financing  transaction  as  defined  in  Regulation  [Securities  Financing 

Transactions  –full reference to be inserted when available] that either  

(i)  has been reported under that Regulation ; or  

EN 

427 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(ii)  is,  at  a  time  prior  to  the  date  of  obligation  of  Article  4  of  that  Regluation,  a 
securities financing transaction for which there would be a reporting obligation 
under that Article if the Article applied at that time. 

(b)  a contract arising exclusively for clearing or settlement purposes; 

(c)  a  settlement  of  mutual  obligations  between  parties  where  the  net  obligation  is  carried 

forward; 

(d)  an acquisition or disposal that is solely a result of custodial activity; 

(e)  a post-trade assignment or novation in a derivative contract where one of the parties to 

the derivative contract is replaced by a third party; 

(f)  a portfolio compression;  

(g)  a creation or redemption of a fund by the administrator of the fund; 

(h)  an  exercise  of  a  financial  instrument  or  conversion  of  a  convertible  bond  and  the 
resultant transaction in the underlying financial instrument or in the financial instrument 
that the bond has been converted into;  

(i)  a  creation,  expiration  or  redemption  of  a  financial  instrument  as  a  result  of  pre-
determined contractual terms, or as a result of mandatory events which are beyond the 
control of the investor where no investment decision by the investor takes place at the 
point in time of the creation, expiration or redemption of the financial instrument;  

(j)  a decrease or increase in the notional amount of a derivative contract that is a financial 
instrument  as  a  result  of  pre-determined  contractual  terms  or  mandatory  events  where 
no investment decision by the investor takes place at the point in time of the change in 
notional; 

(k)  a change in the composition of an index or a basket that occurs after the execution of a 

transaction; 

(l)  an acquisition under a dividend re-investment plan; 

(m) an acquisition or disposal  under an employee share incentive plan, or arising from  the 
administration  of  an  unclaimed  asset  trust,  or  of  residual  fractional  share  entitlements 
following corporate events or as part of shareholder reduction programmes where all the 
following criteria are met: 

(i)  the dates of acquisition or disposal are pre-determined and published in advance; 

(ii)  the  investment  decision  concerning  the  acquisition  or  disposal  that  is  taken  by 
the investor amounts to a choice by the investor to enter into the transaction with 
no ability to unilaterally vary the terms of the transaction;  

EN 

428 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(iii) there is a delay of at least ten business days between the investment decision and 

the moment of execution;  

(iv) the value of the transaction is capped at the equivalent of a thousand euros for a 
one  off  transaction  for  the  particular  investor  in  the  particular  instrument  or, 
where  the  arrangement  results  in  transactions,  the  cumulative  value  of  the 
transaction  shall  be  capped  at  the  equivalent  of  five  hundred  euros  for  the 
particular investor in the particular instrument per calendar month.  

(n)  an  exchange  and  tender  offer  on  a  bond  or  other  form  of  securitised  debt  where  the 
terms and conditions of the offer are pre-determined and published in advance and the 
investment  decision  amounts  to  a  choice  by  the  investor  to  enter  into  the  transaction 
with no ability to unilaterally vary its terms. 

The  exclusion  provided  for  in  point  (i)  of  the  first  subparagraph  shall  not  apply  to  initial 
public offerings or secondary public offerings or placings, or debt issuance. 

 

Article 3 

Meaning of execution of a transaction 

1.  Where an investment firm performs any of the following services or activities that result 
in  a  transaction  within  the  meaning  of  Article  2,  it  shall  be  deemed  to  have  executed  that 
transaction: 

(i)  Reception  and  transmission  of  orders  in  relation  to  one  or  more  financial 

instruments; 

(ii)  Execution of orders on behalf of clients;  

(iii) Dealing on own account;  

(iv) Making  an  investment  decision  in  accordance  with  a  discretionary  mandate 

given by a client; 

(v)  Transfer of financial instruments to or from accounts. 

2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1, an investment firm shall be deemed not to have 
executed a transaction where it has transmitted an order in accordance with Article  4. 

 

EN 

Article 4 

Transmission of an order 

429 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  An  investment  firm  (“transmitting  firm”)  shall  be  deemed  to  have  transmitted  an  order 
pursuant to Article 26(4) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 only if the following conditions are 
met: 

(a)  The order was received from its client or results from its decision to acquire or dispose 
of a specific financial instrument in accordance with a discretionary mandate provided 
to it by one or more clients. 

(b)  The transmitting firm has transmitted the information referred to in paragraph 2 (“order 

details”) to another investment firm (“receiving firm”). 

(c)  That  receiving  firm  is  subject  to  Article  26(1)  of  Regulation  No  600/2014  and  agrees 
either  to  report  the  transaction  resulting  from  the  order  concerned    or  to  transmit  the 
order details to another investment firm. The agreement shall specify the timing for the 
provision of the order details by the transmitting firm to the receiving firm and provide 
confirmation that the receiving firm shall validate the order details received for obvious 
errors and omissions before submitting a transaction report.  

2.  The following order details shall be transmitted in accordance with paragraph 1, insofar 
as pertinent to a given order: 

(a)  the identification code of the financial instrument; 

(b)  whether the order is for the acquisition or disposal of the financial instrument; 

(c)  the price and quantity of the order; 

(d)  the designation and details of the transmitting firm’s client for the purposes of the order. 
Where the client is a natural person, the designation shall be in accordance with Article 
6; 

(e)  the  designation  and  details  of  the  decision  maker  for  the  client  where  the  investment 

decision is made under a power of representation; 

(f)  a designation to identify a short sale; 

(g)  a designation to identify a person or algorithm responsible for the investment decision 

within the transmitting firm; 

(h)  country of the branch for the person responsible for the investment decision and country 
of the branch that received the order from the client or made an investment decision for 
a client in accordance with a discretionary mandate given to it by the client; 

(i)  for an order in commodity derivatives, an indication whether the transaction is to reduce 
risk  in  an  objectively  measurable  way  in  accordance  with  Article  57  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council ;. 

EN 

430 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(j) 

the code identifying the transmitting firm.  

For the purposes of point (j), if there is no prior transmitting firm that successfully transmitted 
the  order,  the  code  for  the  transmitting  firm  shall  be  transmitted.  Where  the  order  was 
received  from  a  prior  transmitting  firm  that  successfully  transmitted  the  order,  the  code 
provided by the prior transmitting firm shall be transmitted. 

3.  Where  there  is  more  than  one  transmitting  firm  in  relation  to  a  given  order,  the  order 
details to be transmitted are those referred to in points (d) to (i) in respect of the client of the 
first transmitting firm. 

4.  Where  the  order  is  aggregated  for  several  clients,  information  specified  in  paragraph  2 
shall be transmitted for each allocation to a client. 

 

Identification of the investment firm executing a transaction   

Article 5 

1.  An  investment  firm  which  executes  a  transaction  shall  ensure  that  it  is  identified  in  the 
transaction  report  submitted  pursuant  to  its  obligation  under  Article  26(1)  with  a  validated, 
issued and duly renewed ISO 17442 legal entity identifier code.  

2.  An  investment  firm  which  executes  a  transaction  shall  ensure  that  the  reference  data 
related to its legal entity identifier is renewed according to the terms of any of the accredited 
Local Operating Units of the Global Legal Entity Identifier System.  

 

Article 6 

Designation to identify natural persons 

1.  A  natural  person  shall  be  identified  in  a  transaction  report  using  a  concatenation  of  the 
ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 (2 letter country  code) of the nationality of the person, followed by the 
identifier listed in Annex II based on the nationality of the person. 

2.  The identifier shall be assigned in accordance with the priority levels in Annex II. When 
designating  a  natural  person  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1,  the  first  priority  identifier 
provided  in  Annex  II  shall  be  used  where  that  person  has  the  first  priority  identifier.  If  the  
natural person does not have the first priority identifier, the second priority identifier shall be 
used where that person has the second priority identifier. If the natural person does not have 
the second priority identifier, the third priority identifier shall be used .  

3.  Where a natural person is a national of more than one European Economic Area (EEA) 
country, the country code of the first nationality when sorted alphabetically by its ISO 3166-1 
alpha-2  code  and  the  applicable  identifier  related  to  the  first  nationality  as  determined  in 

EN 

431 

EN 

 
 

 

 

accordance  with  paragraph  2  shall  be  used.  Where  a  natural  person  has  a  non-EEA 
nationality,  the  highest  priority  identifier  in  accordance  with  the  field  referring  to  ‘all  other 
countries’ provided in  Annex  II shall apply. Where a natural  person has  EEA and non-EEA 
nationality,  the  highest  priority  identifier  related  to  the  EEA  nationality  as  determined  in 
accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used. 

4.  Where the applicable identifier specified in  Annex II as determined in accordance with 
paragraph 2 refers to CONCAT, the natural person shall be identified by the investment firm 
using an identifier created from the concatenation of the following elements in the following 
order: 

(a)  the date of birth of the person in the format YYYYMMDD; 

(b)  the five first characters of the first name; 

(c)  the five first characters of the surname. 

5.  For the purposes of paragraph 4, prefixes to names shall be excluded and first names and 
surnames shorter than five characters shall be appended by '#' so as to ensure that references 
to names and surnames in accordance with paragraph 4 contain five characters. All characters 
shall be in  upper case.  No apostrophes, accents,  hyphens, punctuation  marks or spaces shall 
be used.  

 

Article 7 

Details of the identity of the client and identifier and details for the decision maker 

1.  A  transaction  report  relating  to  a  transaction  executed  on  behalf  of  a  client  who  is  a 
natural person shall include the full name and date of birth of the client as specified in Annex 
I. 

2.  Where  the  client  is  not  the  person  taking  the  investment  decision  in  relation  to  that 
transaction, the transaction report shall identify the person taking such decision on behalf of 
the client as specified in fields 12-15 for the buyer and fields 21-24 for the seller in Table 2 of 
Annex 1.  

 

Article 8 

Identification of person or computer algorithm responsible for the investment decision  

1.  Where a person or computer algorithm within an investment firm makes the decision to 
acquire  or  dispose  of  a  specific  financial  instrument  (‘investment  decision’),  that  person  or 
computer algorithm shall be identified in field 57 of Annex I. The investment firm shall only 
identify such a person or computer algorithm where the acquisition or disposal is made either 

EN 

432 

EN 

 
 

 

 

on  behalf  of  the  investment  firm  itself,  or  on  behalf  of  a  client  in  accordance  with  a 
discretionary mandate given to it by the client.  

2.  Where more than one person within the investment firm makes the investment decision, 
the  investment  firm  shall  determine  who  is  the  person  taking  the  primary  responsibility  for 
that decision. The determination of the person taking primary responsibility for the investment 
decision shall be made on a consistent basis 

3.  Where a computer algorithm within the investment firm is responsible for the investment 
decision  in  accordance  with  paragraph  1,  the  investment  firm  shall  assign  a  designation  for 
identifying the computer algorithm in a transaction report. That designation shall comply with 
the following conditions: 

(a)  it  is  unique  for  each  set  of  code  or  trading  strategy  that  constitutes  the  algorithm, 

regardless of the financial instruments or markets that the algorithm applies to; 

(b)  it is used consistently when referring to the algorithm or version of the algorithm once 

assigned to it; 

(c)  it is unique over time. 

 

Identification of person or computer algorithm responsible for execution of a 

transaction 

Article 9 

1.  Where  a  person  or  computer  algorithm  within  the  investment  firm  which  executes  a 
transaction  determines  which  trading  venue,  systematic  internaliser  or  organised  trading 
platform  located  outside  the  Union  to  access,  which  firms  to  transmit  orders  to  or  any 
conditions  related  to  the  execution  of  an  order,  that  person  or  computer  algorithm  shall  be 
identified in field 59 of table 2 of the Annex. 

2.  Where  a  person  within  the  investment  firm  is  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the 
transaction,  the  investment  firm  shall  assign  a  designation  for  identifying  that  person  in  a 
transaction report in accordance with Article 7. 

3.  Where a computer algorithm within the investment firm is responsible for theexecution of 
the  transaction,  the  investment  firm  shall  assign  a  designation  for  identifying  the  computer 
algorithm in accordance with Article 8(43). 

4.  Where a person and computer algorithm are both involved in execution of the transaction, 
or more than one person or algorithm is involved, the investment firm shall determine which 
person  or  computer  algorithm  is  primarily  responsible  for  the  execution  of  the  transaction. 
Determination  of  the  person  or  computer  algorithm  taking  primary  responsibility  for  the 
execution shall  be done on a consistent basis.  

EN 

433 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Article 10 

Designation to identify an applicable waiver  

Transaction  reports shall identify  the  applicable  waiver  pursuant  to Article 4 or Article 9 of 
Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  under  which  the  executed  transaction  has  taken  place  in 
accordance with field 61 of Annex I. 

 

Article 11 

Designation to identify a short sale 

1.  Transaction  reports  shall  identify  transactions  which  were  short  sale  transactions  at  the 
time of their execution in accordance with field 62 of the Annex.   

2.  An investment  firm shall  determine on a best  effort  basis the short sales  transactions in 
which its client is the seller. The investment firm shall identify those short sale transactions in 
its transaction report in accordance with field 62 of the Annex.   

3.  Where  an  investment  firm  executes  a  short  sale  transaction  on  its  own  behalf,  it  shall 
indicate  in  the  transaction  report  whether  the  short  sale  transaction  was  undertaken  in  a 
market  making or primary dealer capacity under  an exemption  provided under Article 17 of 
Regulation (EU) No 236/2012.  

4.  No  differentiation  between  a  partial  and  full  short  sale  transaction  shall  be  made  in  the 
transaction report. 

5.  Paragraph  2  also  applies  where  an  investment  firm  aggregates  orders  from  several 
clients.. 

 

Reporting of an execution for a combination of financial instruments  

Article 12 

Where  an  investment  firm  executes  a  transaction  in  a  combination  of  two  or  more  financial 
instruments,  the  investment  firm  shall  report  the  transaction  for  each  financial  instrument 
separately and shall link those reports by an identifier  that is unique at the level of the firm to 
the group of transaction reports  related to that execution as specified in field 40 of Annex I.  

 

Article 13 

Conditions upon which legal entity identifiers are to be developed, attributed and 

EN 

maintained 

434 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  Member  States  shall  ensure  that  legal  entity  identifiers  are  developed,  attributed  and 
maintained in accordance with the following principles: 

(a)  uniqueness, 

(b)  accuracy 

(c)  consistency 

(d)  neutrality, 

(e)  reliability,  

(f)  open source, 

(g)  flexibility 

(h)  scalability, 

(i)  accessibility, 

(j)  availability at a reasonable cost basis, 

(k)  use of uniform global operational standards 

(l)  are  subject  to  governance  framework  of  the  Legal  Entity  Identifier  Regulatory 

Oversight Commitee.   

2. 
Investment  firm  shall  not  provide  a  service  that  would  trigger  the  obligation  of  an 
investment  firm  to  submit  a  transaction  report  for  a  transaction  entered  into  on  behalf  of  a 
client who is eligible for the legal entity identifier code, prior to the legal entity identifier code 
being obtained from that client  .  

3.  The  investment  firm  shall  ensure  that  the  length  and  construction  of  the  code  are 
compliant  with  the  ISO  17442  standard  and  that  the  code  is  included  in  the  Global  LEI 
database maintained by the Central Operating Unit and pertains to the client concerned. 

 

Article 14 

Reporting transactions executed by branches 

1.  Transaction  reports  for  transactions  executed  by  an  investment  firm  wholly  or  partly 
through its branch shall be sent to the competent authority of the home Member State of the 
investment  firm  unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  competent  authorities  of  the  home  and  host 
Member States.   

EN 

435 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  Where  an  investment  firm  executes  a  transaction  wholly  or  partly  through  its  branch,  it 
shall report the transaction once only .  

3.  Where country code details in respect of an investment firm are required to be included in 
a transaction report in accordance with fields 8, 17, 37, 58 and/or 60 in Table 2 of the Annex, 
an investment firm shall provide in the transaction report the ISO 3166 country code for any 
branch through which it has wholly or partly executed a transaction, in any of the following 
cases:  

(a)  the branch received the order from a client or made an investment decision for a client 

in accordance with a discretionary mandate given to it by the client; 

(b)  the branch has supervisory responsibility for the person responsible for the investment 

decision concerned; 

(c)  the branch has supervisory responsibility for the person responsible for execution of the 

transaction; 

(d)  the  transaction  was  executed  on  a  trading  venue  or  an  organised  trading  platform 

located outside the Union using the membership of the branch .  

4.  Where one or more of the cases provided in paragraph 3 do not apply to a branch of the 
investment firm, the relevant fields in Annex I shall be populated with the ISO country code 
for the home Member State of the investment firm, or, in the case of a third country firm, the 
country code of the country where the firm has established its head office or registered office. 

5.  The  branch  of  a  third  country  firm  shall  submit  the  transaction  report  to  the  competent 
authority  which  authorised  the  branch.  The  branch  of  a  third  country  firm  shall  fill  the 
relevant fields in Annex I with the ISO country code for the Member State of the authorising 
competent authority.  

6.  Where a third country firm has set up branches in more than one Member State within the 
Union, those branches shall jointly choose one of the competent authorities from th Member 
States to whom transaction reports are to be sent pursuant to paragraphs 1 to 3  .  

 

Methods and arrangements for reporting financial transactions 

Article 15 

1.  The methods and arrangements by which transaction reports are generated and submitted 
by trading venues and investment firms shall include: 

(a)  systems to ensure the security and confidentiality of the data reported;  

(b)  mechanisms for authenticating the source of the transaction report; 

EN 

436 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  precautionary  measures  to  enable  the  timely  resumption  of  reporting  in  the  case  of  a 

failure of the reporting system; 

(d)  mechanisms for identifying errors and omissions within transaction reports; 

(e)  mechanisms to avoid the reporting of duplicate trans action reports, including where an 
investment firm relies on a trading venue to report the details of transactions executed 
by the investment firm through the trading venue’s systems in accordance with Article 
26(7) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014; 

(f)  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  the  trading  venue  only  submits  reports  on  behalf  of  those 
investment firms that have chosen to rely on the trading venue to send reports on their 
behalf for transactions completed through its systems; 

(g)  mechanisms to avoid reporting of any transaction where there is no obligation to report 
under  Article  26(1)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  either  because  there  is  no 
transaction  the    within  the  meaning  of  Article  2  of  this  Regulation    or  because  the  
instrument  which  is  the  subject  of  the  transaction  concerned  does  not  fall  within  the 
scope of Article 26(2) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014; 

(h)  mechanisms for identifying unreported transactions for which there is  an  obligation to 
report  under  Article  26  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  including  cases  where 
transaction  reports  rejected    by  the  competent  authority  concerned  have  not  been 
successfully re-submitted; 

2.  Where  the  trading  venue  or  investment  firm  becomes  aware  of  any  error  or  omission 
within  a  transaction  report  submitted  to  a  competent  authority,  any  failure  to  submit  a 
transaction  report  including  any  failure  to  re-submit  a  rejected  transaction  report  for 
transactions  that  are  reportable,  or  of  the  reporting  of  a  transaction  for  which  there  no 
obligation  to  report  applies,  it  shall  promptly  notify  the  relevant  competent  authority  of  this 
fact. 

3. 
Investment firms shall have arrangements in place to ensure that their transaction reports 
are complete and accurate. These arrangements shall include testing of their reporting process 
and regular reconciliation of their front-office trading records against data samples provided 
to them by their competent authorities to that effect.  

4.  Where  competent  authorities  do  not  provide  data  samples,  investment  firms  shall 
reconcile their front-office trading records against the information contained in the transaction 
reports  that  they  have  submitted  to  competent  authorities,  or  in  the  transaction  reports  that 
ARM  or  trading  venues  have  submitted  on  their  behalf.  The  reconciliation  shall  include 
checking  the  timeliness  of  the  report,  the  accuracy  and  completeness  of  the  individual  data 
fields and their compliance with the standards and formats specified in Annex I.  

5. 
Investment firms shall have arrangements in place to ensure that their transaction reports, 
when  viewed  collectively,  reflect  all  changes  in  their  position  and  in  the  position  of  their 

EN 

437 

EN 

 
 

 

 

clients  in  the  financial  instruments  concerned  at  the  time  transactions  in  the  financial 
instruments are executed.  

6.  Where  an  ARM,  in  accordance  with  instructions  from  the  investment  firm,  cancels  or 
corrects a transaction report submitted on behalf of an investment firm, the  investment firm 
shall retain the details of the corrections and cancellations provided to it  by the ARM in order 
to be able to track the cancellations or corrections. 

7.  The reports referred to in Article 26(5) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall be sent to 
the competent authority of the home Member State of the trading venue. 

8.  Competent  authorities  shall  use  secure  electronic  communication  channels  when 
exchanging transaction reports with each other. 

 

Determination of the most relevant market in terms of liquidity 

Article 16 

1. 
In  the  case  of  a  transferable  security  within  the  meaning  of  Article  4(1)(44)(a)  of 
Directive  2014/65/EU  or  a  unit  in  a  collective  investment  undertaking,    the  most  relevant 
market  in  terms  of liquidity  for that financial instrument  (hereinafter  'most  relevant  market') 
shall  be  determined  once  each  calendar  year  based  on  the  previous  calendar  year  data, 
provided that the financial instrument was admitted to trading or traded at the beginning of the 
previous calendar year, as follows: 

(a)  for instruments admitted to trading on one or more regulated markets, the most relevant 
market shall be the regulated market where the turnover  for the previous calendar year 
for that instrument is the highest;  

(b)  for instruments not admitted to trading on regulated markets, the most relevant market 
shall be the MTF where the turnover for the previous calendar year for that instrument 
is the highest; 

(c)  for the purposes of  (a) and (b), the highest turnover shall be calculated by excluding all 
transactions that benefit from pre-trade transparency waivers pursuant to Article 4(1)(a), 
(b) or (c) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 .  

2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where a transferable security within the meaning 
of  Article  4(1)(44)(a)  of  Directive  2014/65/EU  or  a  unit  in  a  collective  investment 
undertaking  was  not  admitted  to  trading  or  traded  at  the  beginning  of  the  previous  calendar 
year or where there is insufficient or non-existent data to calculate the turnover in accordance 
with paragraph 1(c) for the purpose of determining the most relevant market for that financial 
instrument  , the most relevant market for the financial instrument shall be the market of the 
Member  State  in  which  a  request  for  admission  to  trading  was  first  made  or  where  the 
instrument was first traded. 

EN 

438 

EN 

 
 

 

 

3. 
In  the  case  of  a  transferable  security  within  the  meaning  of  Article  4(1)(44)(b)  of 
Directive 2014/65/EU or a money market instrument whose issuer is established in the EEA, 
the most relevant market shall be the market of the Member State where the registered office 
of the issuer is situated. 

4. 
In  the  case  of  a  transferable  security  within  the  meaning  of  Article  4(1)(44)(b)  of 
Directive 2014/65/EU or a money market  instrument whose issuer is  established outside the 
EEA , the most relevant market shall be the market of the Member State where the request for 
admission  to  trading  of  that  financial  instrument  was  first  made  or  where  the  financial 
instrument was first traded on a trading venue. 

5. 
In  the  case  of  a  financial  instrument  which  is  a  derivative  contract  or  a  contract  for 
difference  or  a  transferable  security  within  the  meaning  of  Article  4(1)(44)(c)  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU, the most relevant market shall be determined as follows: 

(a)  where  the  underlying  in  the  financial  instrument  is  a  transferable  security  within  the 
meaning of Article 4(1)(44)(a) of Directive 2014/65/EU which is admitted to trading on 
a regulated market or is traded on an MTF, the most relevant market shall be the market 
deemed to be the most relevant market for the underlying security  in accordance with 
paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article; 

(b)  where  the  underlying  in  a  financial  instrument  is  a  transferable  security  within  the 
meaning of Article 4(1)(44)(b) of Directive 2014/65/EU or a money market instrument 
which is admitted to trading on a regulated market or traded on an MTF or an OTF, the 
most relevant market shall be the market deemed to be the most relevant market for the 
underlying financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 3 or 4 of this Article; 

(c)  where  the  underlying  in  a  financial  instrument  is  a  basket,  the  most  relevant  market 
shall  be  the  market  of  the  Member  State  in  which  the  financial  instrument  was  first 
admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue; 

(d)  where  the  underlying  in  a  financial  instrument  is  an  index,  the  most  relevant  market 
shall  be  the  market  of  the  Members  State  in  which  the  financial  instrument  was  first 
admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue; 

(e)  where  the  underlying  of  the  financial  instrument  is  a  derivative  admitted  to  trading  or 
traded on a trading venue, the most relevant market shall be the market of the Member 
State in which that derivative is admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue.  

6.  For  financial  instruments  that  are  not  covered  by  paragraphs  1  to  5,  the  most  relevant 
market shall be the market of the Member State of the trading venue which first admitted the 
financial instrument to trading or on which the financial instrument was first traded  . 

 

EN 

Article 17 

439 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

This Regulation shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

440 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex I:  

Table 1 

Legend for Table 2  

SYMBOL 

DATA TYPE 

DEFINITION 

{ALPHANUM-n}   Up to n 

Free text field. 

alphanumerical 
characters 

{CFI_CODE} 

6 characters 

ISO 10962 CFI code 

{COUNTRYCOD
E_2} 

2 alphanumerical 
characters 

{CURRENCYCO
DE_3} 

3 alphanumerical 
characters 

2 letter country code, as defined by ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code 

3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency codes 

{DATE_TIME_FO
RMAT} 

ISO 8601 date 
and time format 

Date and time in the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.ddddddZ.  

‘YYYY’ is the year; 
‘MM’ is the month; 
‘DD’ is the day; 
‘T’ – means that the letter ‘T’ shall be used 
‘hh’ is the hour; 
‘mm’ is the minute; 
‘ss.dddddd’ is the second and its fraction of a second; 

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  Z is UTC time.  

Dates and times shall be reported in UTC. 

{DATEFORMAT} 

ISO 8601 date 
format 

Dates shall be formatted in the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DD.  

{DECIMAL-n/m} 

{INDEX} 

Decimal number 
of up to n digits in 
total of which up 
to m digits can be 
fraction digits 

4 alphabetic 
characters 

EN 

Numerical field for both positive and negative values. 

- 
- 

decimal separator is '.' (full stop);  
negative numbers are prefixed with '-' (minus); 

Values are rounded and not truncated. 

‘EONA’ -– EONIA 

‘EONS’ - EONIA SWAP 

‘EURI’ - EURIBOR 

 ‘EUUS’ - EURODOLLAR 

‘EUCH’ - EuroSwiss 

‘GCFR’ - GCF REPO 

‘ISDA’ - ISDAFIX 

’LIBI’ - LIBID 

‘LIBO’ - LIBOR  

‘MAAA’ – Muni AAA 

 ‘PFAN’ - Pfandbriefe 

‘TIBO’ - TIBOR 

 ‘STBO’ - STIBOR 

‘BBSW’ - BBSW 

441 

EN 

 
 

 

 

‘JIBA’ - JIBAR 

‘BUBO’ - BUBOR 

‘CDOR’ - CDOR 

‘CIBO’ - CIBOR 

‘MOSP’ - MOSPRIM 

‘NIBO’ - NIBOR 

‘PRBO’ - PRIBOR 

‘TLBO’ - TELBOR 

‘WIBO’ – WIBOR 

‘TREA’ – Treasury 

‘SWAP’ – SWAP 

‘FUSW’ – Future SWAP 

{INTEGER-n} 

{ISIN} 

{LEI} 

{MIC} 

Integer number of 
up to n digits in 
total 

12 alphanumerical 
characters 

20 alphanumerical 
characters 

4 alphanumerical 
characters 

Numerical field for both positive and negative integer values. 

ISIN code, as defined in ISO 6166 

Legal entity identifier as defined in ISO 17442 

Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

35 alphanumerical 
characters 

The identifier is derived in accordance with Article 6 and Table of 
Annex II. 

 

 

 

EN 

442 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Table 2 

Details to be reported in transaction reports  

All fields are mandatory, unless stated otherwise.  

N 

FIELD 

CONTENT TO BE REPORTED 

1 

Report status 

Indication as to whether the transaction report is new or a 
cancellation. 

FORMAT AND 
STANDARDS TO BE 
USED FOR 
REPORTING 

‘NEWT' - New 

‘CANC’ - Cancellation 

2 

Transaction 
Reference Number 

Identification number that is unique to the executing firm for each 
transaction report . 

{ALPHANUMERICAL-
52} 

3 

Trading venue 
transaction 
identification code  

Where, pursuant to Article 26(5) of Regulation (EU) 600/2014, a 
trading venue submits a transaction report on behalf of a firm that 
is not subject to Regulation (EU) 600/2014, the trading venue 
shall populate this field with a number that has been internally 
generated by the trading venue and that is unique for each 
transaction report submitted by the trading venue.   

This is a number generated by trading venues and disseminated to 
both the buying and the selling parties in accordance with Article 
12 of [RTS 24 on the maintenance of relevant data relating to 
orders in financial instruments under Article 25 of Regulation 
600/2014 EU]. 

This field is only required for the market side of  a transaction  
executed on a trading venue. 

{ALPHANUMERICAL-
52} 

4 

5 

Executing entity 
identification code 

Code used to identify the entity executing the transaction. 

{LEI} 

For legal entities, use the legal entity identifier.  

 

Indicates whether the entity identified in field 4 is an investment 
firm covered by Directive 2004/39/EC or Directive 2014/65/EU. 

‘true’- yes 

‘false’- no 

Investment Firm 
covered by 
Directive 
2004/39/EC or 
Directive 
2014/65/EU 

6 

Submitting entity 
identification code  

Code used to identify the entity submitting the transaction report 
to the competent authority in accordance with Article 26(7) of 
Regulation (EU) 600/2014. 

{LEI} 

 

 

Where the report is submitted by the executing firm directly to 
the competent authority, it shall be populated with the LEI of the 
executing firm (where the executing firm is a legal entity).  

Where the report is submitted by a trading venue, it shall be 
populated with the LEI of the operator of the trading venue. 

 Where the report is submitted by an ARM, it shall be populated 
with the LEI of the ARM. 

EN 

443 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Buyer details 

- 

For joint accounts fields 7-11 shall be repeated for each buyer. 

-  Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4, the 

information in fields 7-15 shall be populated by the receiving firm in the receiving firm’s report with the 
information received from the transmitting firm.  

-  Where the transmission is for a transmitted order that has not met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 

4 the receiving firm shall treat the transmitting firm as the buyer.   

7 

Buyer 
identification code  

 

Code used to identify the acquirer of the financial instrument.  

{LEI} 

{MIC} 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

'INTC'  

 

Where the acquirer is a legal entity, the LEI code of the acquirer 
shall be used. 

Where the acquirer is a non-legal entity, the identifier specified in 
Article 6 shall be used. 

Where the transaction was executed on a trading venue or on  an 
organised trading platform outside of the Union that utilises a 
central counterparty (CCP) and where the identity of the acquirer 
is not disclosed, the LEI code of the CCP shall be used. 

Where the transaction was executed on a trading venue or on  an 
organised trading platform outside of the Union that does not 
utilise a CCP and where the identity of the acquirer is not 
disclosed, the MIC code of the trading venue or of the organised 
trading platform outside of the Union shall be used. 

Where the acquirer is an investment firm acting as a systematic 
internaliser (SI), the LEI code of the SI shall be used. 

 

‘INTC’ shall be used to designate an aggregate client account 
within the investment firm  in order to report a transfer into or out 
of that account with an associated allocation to the individual 
client(s) out of or into that account respectively.  

 

In case of options and swaptions, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that holds the right to exercise the option and the 
seller shall be the counterparty that sells the option and receives a 
premium. 

In case of futures and forwards other than futures and forwards 
relating to currencies, the buyer shall be the counterparty buying 
the instrument and the seller the counterparty selling the 
instrument. 

In the case of swaps relating to securities, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that gets the risk of price movement of the 
underlying security and receives the security amount. The seller 
shall be the counterparty paying the security amount. 

In the case of swaps related to interest rates or inflation indices, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty paying the fixed rate. The 
seller shall be the counterparty receiving the fixed rate. In case of 
basis swaps (float-to-float interest rate swaps), the buyer shall be 
the counterparty that pays the spread and the seller the 
counterparty that receives the spread. 

In the case of swaps and forwards related to currencies and of 
cross currency swaps, the buyer shall be the counterparty 
receiving the currency which is first when sorted alphabetically 
by ISO 4217 standard and the seller shall be the counterparty 

EN 

444 

EN 

 
 

 

 

delivering this currency. 

In the case of swap related to dividends, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty receiving the equivalent actual dividend payments. 
The seller is the counterparty paying the dividend and receiving 
the fixed rate. 

In the case of derivative instruments for the transfer of credit risk 
except options and swaptions, the buyer shall be the counterparty 
buying the protection. The seller is the counterparty selling the 
protection. 

In case of derivative contract related to commodities, the buyer 
shall be the counterparty that receives the commodity specified in 
the report and the seller the counterparty delivering this 
commodity. 

In case of forward rate agreements, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty paying the fixed rate and the seller the counterparty 
receiving the fixed rate. 

For an increase in notional, the buyer shall be the same as the 
acquirer of the financial instrument in the original transaction and 
the seller shall be the same as the disposer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction.  

For a decrease in notional the buyer shall be the same as the 
disposer of the financial instrument in the original transaction and 
the seller shall be the same as the acquirer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction. 

Additional details 

- 

- 

Field 8-15 are only applicable if the buyer is a client 

Fields 9-11 are only applicable if the buyer is a natural person 

8 

Country of the 
branch for the 
buyer 

{COUNTRYCODE_2} 

 

Where the acquirer is a client, this field should identify the 
country of the branch that received the order from the client or 
made an investment decision for a client in accordance with a 
discretionary mandate given to it by the client as required by 
Article 14.3. 

Where this activity was not conducted by a branch this should be 
populated with the country code of the home Member State of the 
investment firm or the country code of the country where the 
investment firm has established its head office or registered office 
(in the case of third country firms). 

Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has met the 
conditions for transmission set out in Article 4, this field shall be 
populated using the information received from the transmitting 
firm.  

9 

Buyer - first 
name(s)  

Full first name(s) of the buyer. In case of more than one first 
name, all names shall be included in this field separated by a 
comma. 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

10 

Buyer - 
surname(s)  

Full surname(s) of the buyer. In case of more than one surname, 
all surnames shall be included in this field separated by a comma. 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

11 

Buyer - date of 

Date of birth of the buyer 

{DATEFORMAT} 

EN 

445 

EN 

 
 

 

 

birth 

Buyer decision maker 

- 

Fields 12-15 are only applicable if the decision maker acts under a power of representation 

12 

Buyer decision 
maker code 

Code used to identify the person who makes the decision to 
acquire the financial instrument. 

{LEI} 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

Where the decision is made by an investment firm, this field shall 
be populated with the identity of the investment firm rather than 
the individual making the investment decision. 

Where the decision maker is a legal entity, the LEI code of the 
decision maker shall be used. 

Where the decision maker is a non-legal entity, the identifier 
specified in Article 6 shall be used. 

Buyer decision maker details 

- 

Fields 13-15 are only applicable if the decision maker is a natural person 

13 

14 

15 

Buy decision 
maker - First 
Name(s) 

Buy decision 
maker – 
Surname(s) 

Buy decision 
maker - Date of 
birth 

Full first name(s) of the decision maker for the buyer. In case of 
more than one first name, all names shall be included in this field 
separated by a comma 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

Full surname(s) of the decision maker for the buyer. In case of 
more than one surname, all surnames shall be included in this 
field separated by a comma 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

Date of birth of the decision maker for the buyer 

{DATEFORMAT} 

Seller details and decision maker 

- 

For joint accounts fields 16-20 shall be repeated for each seller. 

-  Where the transaction for a seller is for a transmitted order that has met the conditions for transmission set out in 
Article  4,  the  information  in  fields  16-24  shall  be  populated  by  the  receiving  firm  in  the  receiving  firm’s  report 
from the information received from the transmitting firm. 

-  Where the transmission is for a transmitted order that has not met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 

5, the receiving firm shall treat the transmitting firm as the seller. 

EN 

446 

EN 

 
{LEI} 

{MIC} 

{NATIONAL_ID} 

'INTC'  

 

 

 

16 

Seller 
identification code  

Code used to identify the disposer of the financial 
instrument.  

 

 

Where the disposer is a legal entity, the LEI code of the 
disposer shall be used. 

Where the disposer is a non-legal entity, the identifier 
specified in Article 7 shall be used.  

Where the transaction was executed on a trading venue or 
on an organised trading platform outside of the Union that 
utilises a CCP and where the identity of the disposer is not 
disclosed, the LEI code of the CCP shall be used. 

Where the transaction was executed on a trading venue or 
on an organised trading platform  outside of the Union that 
does not utilise a CCP and where the identity of the 
disposer is not disclosed, the MIC code of the trading venue 
or  of the organised trading platform outside of the Union 
shall be used. 

Where the disposer is an investment firm acting as a SI, the 
LEI code of the SI shall be used 

 

‘INTC’ shall be used to designate an aggregate client 
account within the investment firm  in order to report a 
transfer into or out of that account with an associated 
allocation to the individual client(s) out of or into that 
account respectively. 

 

In case of options and swaptions, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that holds the right to exercise the option and 
the seller shall be the counterparty that sells the option and 
receives a premium. 

In case of futures and forwards other than futures and 
forwards relating to currencies, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty buying the instrument and the seller the 
counterparty selling the instrument. 

In the case of swaps relating to securities, the buyer shall be 
the counterparty that gets the risk of price movement of the 
underlying security and receives the security amount. The 
seller shall be the counterparty paying the security amount. 

In the case of swaps related to interest rates or inflation 
indices, the buyer shall be the counterparty paying the fixed 
rate. The seller shall be the counterparty receiving the fixed 
rate. In case of basis swaps (float-to-float interest rate 
swaps), the buyer shall be the counterparty that pays the 
spread and the seller the counterparty that receives the 
spread. 

In the case of swaps and forwards related to currencies and 
of cross currency swaps, the buyer shall be the counterparty 
receiving the currency which is first when sorted 
alphabetically by ISO 4217 standard and the seller shall be 
the counterparty delivering this currency. 

In the case of swap related to dividends, the buyer shall be 
the counterparty receiving the equivalent actual dividend 
payments. The seller is the counterparty paying the 
dividend and receiving the fixed rate. 

EN 

447 

EN 

 
 

 

 

In the case of derivative instruments for the transfer of 
credit risk except options and swaptions, the buyer shall be 
the counterparty buying the protection. The seller is the 
counterparty selling the protection. 

In case of derivative contracts related to commodities, the 
buyer shall be the counterparty that receives the commodity 
specified in the report and the seller the counterparty 
delivering this commodity. 

In case of forward rate agreements, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty paying the fixed rate and the seller the 
counterparty receiving the fixed rate. 

 

For an increase in notional, the seller shall be the same as 
the disposer in the original transaction.  

For a decrease in notional the seller shall be the same as the 
acquirer of the financial instrument in the original 
transaction. 

 

Fields 17-24 mirror all buyer related fields numbered 8-15 (buyer details and decision maker) for the seller. 

17-
24 

Transmission details 

- 

- 

Field 25 shall only be populated for transaction reports by transmitting firms where the conditions for transmission 
as set out in Article 4 are not met. 

Fields  26  and  27  shall  only  be  populated  for  transaction  reports  by  a  receiving  firm  where  all  the  conditions  for 
transmission in Article 4 have been met. 

-  Where a firm acts both as a receiving firm and a transmitting firm it shall populate field 25 to indicate that it is a 

transmitting firm and shall populate fields 26 and 27 from its perspective as a receiving firm. 

 

25 

Transmission of 
order indicator 

‘true’ shall be populated by the transmitting firm within the 
transmitting firm’s report where  the conditions for 
transmission specified in Article 4 were not satisfied 

‘true’ 

‘false’ 

‘false’ – in all other circumstances 

26 

Transmitting firm 
identification code 
for the buyer 

Code used to identify the firm transmitting the order  

{LEI} 

This shall be populated by the receiving firm within the 
receiving firm’s report with the identification code provided 
by the transmitting firm. 

 

EN 

448 

EN 

 
 

 

 

27 

Transmitting 
identification code 
for the seller 

Code used to identify the firm transmitting the order.  

{LEI} 

This shall be populated by the receiving firm within the 
receiving firm’s report with the identification code provided 
by the transmitting firm   

 

Transaction details 

28 

Trading date time 

Date and time when the transaction was executed. 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT} 

For transactions executed on a trading venue, the level of 
granularity shall be in accordance with the requirements 
set out in Article 3 [RTS 25 on clock synchronization 
under article 50 of Directive 2014/65/EU ]. 

 

For transactions not executed on a trading venue, the date 
and time shall be when the parties agree the content of the 
following fields: quantity, price, currencies in fields 31, 
34 and 44, instrument identification code, instrument 
classification and underlying instrument code, where 
applicable. For transactions not executed on a trading 
venue the time reported shall be at least to the nearest 
second. 

Where the transaction results from an order transmitted 
by the executing firm on behalf of a client to a third party 
where the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4 
were not satisfied, this shall be the date and time of the 
transaction rather than the time of the order transmission. 

29 

Trading capacity 

30 

Quantity  

 

 

‘DEAL’ - Dealing on own 
account 

‘MTCH’ - Matched principal 

‘AOTC’ - Any other capacity 

{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number 
of units 

{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as 
monetary or nominal value 

Indication of whether the transaction results from the 
executing firm carrying out matched principal trading 
under Article 4(38) of Directive 2014/65/EU or dealing 
on own account under Article 4(6) of Directive 
2014/65/EU. 

Where the transaction does not result from the executing 
firm carrying out matched principal trading or dealing on 
own account, the field shall indicate that the transaction 
was carried out under any other capacity. 

The number of units of the financial instrument, or the 
number of derivative contracts in the transaction. 

The nominal or monetary value of the financial 
instrument. 

For spread bets, the quantity shall be the monetary value 
wagered per point movement in the underlying financial 
instrument. 

For credit default swaps, the quantity shall be the notional 
amount for which the protection is acquired or disposed 
of.  

For increase or decrease in notional amount derivative 
contracts, the number shall reflect the absolute value of 
the change and shall be expressed as a positive number. 

The information reported in this field shall be consistent 
with the values provided in fields 33 and 46. 

EN 

449 

EN 

 
 

 

 

31 

Quantity currency 

Currency in which the quantity is expressed. 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

Only applicable if quantity is expressed as nominal or 
monetary value. 

32 

Derivative notional 
increase/decrease 

Indication as to whether the transaction is an increase or 
decrease of notional of a derivative contract. 

‘INCR’ - Increase 

‘DECR’ - Decrease 

Field only applies when there is change in notional for a 
derivative contract. 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the 
price is expressed as monetary 
value  

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the 
price is expressed as percentage 
or yield 

 

’PNDG’ in case the price is not 
available 

33 

Price  

Traded price of the transaction excluding, where 
applicable, commission and accrued interest. 

In the case of option contracts, it shall be the premium of 
the derivative contract per underlying security or index 
point. 

In the case of spread bets it shall be the reference price of 
the underlying instrument. 

. 

For credit default swaps (CDS) it shall be the coupon in 
basis points.  

Where price is reported in monetary terms, it shall be 
provided in the major currency unit. 

Where price is currently not available but pending, the 
value shall be ’PNDG’ 

Where price is not applicable the field shall not be 
populated. 

The information reported in this field shall be consistent 
with the values provided in fields 30 and 46. 

34 

Price Currency 

Currency in which the price is expressed (applicable if the 
price is expressed as monetary value). 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

35 

Net amount 

{DECIMAL-18/5} 

The net amount of the transaction means the cash amount 
which is paid by the buyer of the debt instrument upon 
the settlement of the transaction. This cash amount equals 
to: (clean price * nominal value)+any accrued coupons. 
As a result, the net amount of the transaction excludes 
any commission or other fees charged to the buyer of the 
debt instrument. 

Field only applies when the financial instrument is debt. 

36 

Venue  

Identification of the venue where the transaction was 
executed. 

{MIC}  

Use the ISO 10383 segment MIC for transactions 
executed on a trading venue, Systematic Internaliser (SI) 
or organised trading platform outside of the Union. 
Where the segment MIC does not exist, use the operating 
MIC.  

Use MIC code ‘XOFF’ for financial instruments admitted 
to trading, or traded on a trading venue or for which a 
request for admission was made, where the transaction on 
that financial instrument is not executed on a trading 
venue, SI or organised trading platform outside of the 
Union, or where an investment firm does not know it is 

EN 

450 

EN 

 
 

 

 

trading with another investment firm acting as an SI. 

Use MIC code ‘XXXX’ for financial instruments that are 
not admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue or for 
which no request for admission has been made and that 
are not traded on an organised trading platform outside of 
the Union but where the underlying is admitted to trading 
or traded on a trading venue. 

 

37 

Country of the 
branch membership 

Code used to identify the country of a branch of the 
investment firm whose market membership was used to 
execute the transaction. 

{COUNTRYCODE_2} 

Where a branch’s market membership was not used, this 
field shall be populated with the country code of the home 
Member State of the investment firm or the country code 
of the country where the firm has established its head 
office or registered office (in the case of third country 
firms). 

 

This field shall only be populated for the market side of a 
transaction executed on a trading venue or on an 
organised trading platform outside of the Union. 

38 

Up-front payment 

Monetary value of any up-front payment received or paid 
by the seller. 

{DECIMAL-18/5} 

Where the seller receives the up-front payment, the value 
populated is positive. Where the seller pays the up-front 
payment, the value populated is negative. 

39 

40 

Up-front payment 
currency 

Complex trade 
component id 

Instrument details  

41 

Instrument 
identification code  

Currency of the up-front payment. 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

Identifier, internal to the reporting firm to identify all the 
reports related to the same execution of a combination of 
financial instruments in accordance with Article 12. The 
code must be unique at the level of the firm for the group 
of reports related to the execution. 

Field only applies when the conditions specified in 
Article 12 apply. 

{ALPHANUMERIC-35} 

Code used to identify the financial instrument 

{ISIN} 

This field applies to financial instruments for which a 
request for admission to trading has been made, that are 
admitted to trading or traded on a trading venue or on a 
systematic internaliser. It also applies to financial 
instruments which have an ISIN and are traded on 
organised trading platform outside of the Union where the 
underlying is a financial instrument traded on a trading 
venue. 

Fields 42-56 are not applicable where: 

transactions are executed on a trading venue or with an investment firm acting as a SI; or 

EN 

451 

EN 

 
 

 

 

field 41 is populated with an ISIN that exists on the reference data list from ESMA 

 

42 

43 

Instrument full 
name 

Instrument 
classification 

Full name of the financial instrument 

{ALPHANUM-350} 

Taxonomy used to classify the financial instrument 

{CFI_CODE} 

A complete and accurate CFI code shall be provided. 

44 

Notional currency 1  Currency in which the notional is denominated.  

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

In the case of an interest rate or currency derivative 
contract, this will be the notional currency of leg 1 or the 
currency 1 of the pair. 

In the case of swaptions where the underlying swap is 
single-currency, this will be the notional currency of the 
underlying swap. For swaptions where the underlying is 
multi-currency, this will be the notional currency of leg 1 
of the swap. 

45 

Notional currency 2 

In the case of multi-currency or cross-currency swaps the 
currency in which leg 2 of the contract is denominated. 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

For swaptions where the underlying swap is  multi-
currency,  the currency in which leg 2 of the swap is 
denominated 

46 

Price multiplier  

Number of units of the underlying instrument represented 
by a single derivative contract. 

{DECIMAL-18/17} 

 

 Monetary value covered by a single swap contract where 
the quantity field indicates the number of swap contracts 
in the transaction.For a future or option on an index, the 
amount per index point.  

For spreadbets the movement in the price of the 
underlying instrument on which the spreadbet is based.  

The information reported in this field shall be consistent 
with the values provided in fields 30 and 33. 

47 

Underlying 
instrument code 

ISIN code of the underlying instrument. 

{ISIN}  
 

For ADRs, GDRs and similar instruments, the ISIN code 
of the financial instrument on which those instruments are 
based. 

For convertible bonds, the ISIN code of the instrument in 
which the bond can be converted. 

For derivatives or other instruments which have an 
underlying, the underlying instrument ISIN code, when 
the underlying is admitted to trading, or traded on a 
trading venue. Where the underlying is a stock dividend, 
then ISIN code of the related share entitling the 
underlying dividend. 

EN 

452 

EN 

 
 

 

 

For Credit Default Swaps, the ISIN of the reference 
obligation shall be provided.  

In case the underlying is an Index and has an ISIN, the 
ISIN code for that index. 

Where the underlying is a basket, include the ISIN of 
each constituent of the basket that is admitted to trading 
or is traded on a trading venue. Field 47 shall be reported 
as many times as necessary to list all reportable 
instruments in the basket. 

48 

Underlying index 
name 

When the underlying is an index, the name of the Index.  

{INDEX}  

Or 

{ALPHANUM-25} - if the 
index name is not included in 
the {INDEX} list 

{INTEGER-3}+'DAYS' - days 
{INTEGER-3}+'WEEK' - weeks 
{INTEGER-3}+'MNTH' - 
months 
{INTEGER-3}+'YEAR' - years 

‘PUTO’ - Put  

‘CALL’ - Call 

‘OTHR’ - where it cannot be 
determined whether it is a call or 
a put   

49 

Term of the 

In case the underlying is an index, the term of the index. 

underlying index 

50 

Option type 

 

Indication as to whether the derivative contract is a call 
(right to purchase a specific underlying asset) or a put 
(right to sell a specific underlying asset) or whether it 
cannot be determined whether it is a call or a put at the 
time of execution. 

In case of swaptions it shall be: 

- ‘PUTO’, in case of receiver swaption, in which the 
buyer has the right to enter into a swap as a fixed-rate 
receiver. 

-‘Call’, in case of payer swaption, in which the buyer has 
the right to enter into a swap as a fixed-rate payer.  

In case of Caps and Floors it shall be: 

-‘PUTO’, in case of a Floor. 

-‘Call’, in case of a Cap.  

Field only applies to derivatives that are options or 
warrants. 

 

51 

Strike price  

 

Pre-determined price at which the holder will have to buy 
or sell the underlying instrument, or an indication that the 
price cannot be determined at the time of execution. 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the 
price is expressed as monetary 
value 

Field only applies to an option or warrant where strike 
price can be determined at the time of execution. 

 

   

Where price is currently not available but pending, the 
value shall be ’PNDG’ 

{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the 
price is expressed as percentage 

EN 

453 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Where strike price is not applicable the field shall not be 
populated. 

or yield 

’PNDG’ in case the price is 
not available 

 

52 

53 

Strike price 
currency 

Option exercise 
style  

Currency of the strike price 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

Indication as to whether the option may be exercised only 
at a fixed date (European, and Asian style), a series of 
pre-specified dates (Bermudan) or at any time during the 
life of the contract (American style).  

 
This field is only applicable for options, warrants and 
entitlement certificates. 

‘EURO’ - European 

‘AMER’ - American 

‘ASIA’ - Asian 

‘BERM’ - Bermudan 

‘OTHR’ - Any other type 

54  Maturity date 

Date of maturity of the financial instrument.  
Field only applies to debt instruments with defined 
maturity. 

{DATEFORMAT} 

55 

Expiry date 

Expiry date of the financial instrument. Field only applies 
to derivatives with a defined expiry date. 

{DATEFORMAT} 

56 

Delivery type 

Indication as to whether the transaction is settled 
physically or in cash. 

Where delivery type cannot be determined at time of 
execution,  the value shall be ’OPTL’ 

The field is only applicable for derivatives. 

‘PHYS’ - Physically settled 

‘CASH’ - Cash settled 

‘OPTL’ - Optional for 
counterparty or when determined 
by a third party 

Trader, algorithms, waivers and indicators 

57 

Investment decision 
within firm 

Code used to identify the person or algorithm within the 
investment firm who is responsible for the investment 
decision. 

For natural persons, the  identifier specified in Article 6 
shall be used 

{NATIONAL_ID} - Natural 
persons 

 

{ALPHANUMERICAL-50} - 
Algorithms 

If the investment decision was made by an algorithm, the 
field shall be populated as set out in Article 8. 

Field only applies for investment decision within the firm. 

Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has 
met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4, 
this field shall be populated by the receiving firm within 
the receiving firm’s report using the information received 
from the transmitting firm. 

58 

Country of the 
branch responsible 
for  the person  
making the 
investment decision  

Code used to identify the country of the branch of the 
investment firm for the person responsible for the 
investment decision, as set out in Article 14.3(b). 

Where the person responsible for the investment decision 
was not supervised by a branch, this field shall be 
populated with the country code of the home Member 
State of the investment firm or the country code of the 

{COUNTRYCODE_2} 

EN 

454 

EN 

 
 

 

 

country where the firm has established its head office or 
registered office (in the case of third country firms). 

Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has 
met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4, 
this field shall be populated by the receiving firm within 
the receiving firm’s report  using the information received 
from the transmitting firm.  

 

This field is not applicable when the investment decision 
was made by an algorithm 

59 

Execution within 
firm 

Code used to identify the person or algorithm within the 
investment firm who is responsible for the execution. 

60 

Country of the 
branch supervising 
the person 
responsible for the 
execution 

For natural persons, the identifier specified in Article 7 
shall be used If the execution was made by an algorithm, 
the field shall be populated as set out in Article 9. 

 

Code used to identify the country of the branch of the 
investment firm for the person responsible for the 
execution of the transaction, as set out in Article 14.3(c). 

Where the person responsible was not supervised by a 
branch, this field shall be populated with the country code 
of the home Member State of the investment firm, or the 
country code of the country where the firm has 
established its head office or registered office (in the case 
of third country firms) 

 

This field is not applicable when the execution was made 
by an algorithm 

61  Waiver indicator  

Indication as to whether the transaction was executed 
under a pre-trade waiver in accordance with Articles 4 
and 9 of Regulation (EU) 600/2014. 

For all instruments: 
 

‘LRGS’ = Large in scale 

‘RFPT’ = Reference price transaction  
‘NLIQ’ = Negotiated transactions in liquid financial 

‘OILQ’ = Negotiated transactions in illiquid financial 

For equity instruments: 
 
 
instruments 
 
instruments  
 
 
conditions other than the current  
price of that equity financial instrument. 

‘PRIC’ = Negotiated transactions subject to 

market 

{NATIONAL_ID} - Natural 
persons 
{ALPHANUMERICAL-50} - 
Algorithms 

{COUNTRYCODE_2} 

Populate one or more of the 
following flags: 

‘LRGS’ - Large in scale 
‘RFPT’ - Reference price 
‘NLIQ’ - Negotiated (liquid) 
‘OILQ’ - Negotiated (illiquid) 
‘PRIC’ - Negotiated (conditions) 
‘SIZE’ - Above specified size 
‘ILQD’ - Illiquid instrument 

 

For non-equity instruments: 
 
 

‘SIZE’ = Above specific size transaction 
‘ILQD’ = Illiquid instrument transaction 

 

This field shall only be populated for the market side of a 
transaction executed under a waiver  on a trading venue. 

EN 

455 

EN 

 
 

 

 

62 

Short selling 
indicator 

A short sale concluded by an investment firm on its own 
behalf or on behalf of a client, as described in Article 11. 

‘SESH’ - Short sale with no 
exemption 

When an investment firm executes a transaction on behalf 
of a client who is selling and the investment firm, acting 
on a best effort basis, cannot determine whether it is a 
short sale transaction, this field shall be populated with 
‘NTAV’ 

‘SSEX’ - Short sale with 
exemption 

‘SELL’ - No short sale 

‘NTAV’ – Information not 
available 

Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has 
met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4 of 
this Regulation, this field shall be populated by the 
receiving firm in the receiving firm’s reports using the 
information received from the transmitting firm.  

 

This field is only applicable when, the instrument is 
covered by Regulation (EU) 236/2012, and the seller is 
the investment firm or a client of the investment firm. 

63 

OTC post-trade 
indicator 

Indicator as to the type of transaction in accordance with 
Articles 20(3)(a) and 21(5)(a) of Regulation (EU) 
600/2014.  

For all instruments: 

     ‘BENC’ = Benchmark transactions 

     ‘ACTX’ = Agency cross transactions 

Populate one or more of the 
following flags: 

‘BENC’ – Benchmark 

‘ACTX’ – Agency cross 

‘NPFT’ – Non-price forming 
‘LRGS’ - Large in scale 

     ‘NPFT’ = Non-price forming transactions 

‘ILQD’ - Illiquid instrument 

    ‘LRGS’ = Post-trade large-in-scale transactions 

‘SIZE’ - Above specified size 

    ‘ILQD’ = Illiquid instrument transaction 

‘CANC’ - Cancellations 

    ‘SIZE’ = Above specific size transaction 

‘AMND’ - Amendments 

    ‘CANC’ = Cancellations 

    ‘AMND’ = Amendments 

 

For equity instruments: 

    ‘SDIV’ = Special dividend transactions 

‘SDIV’ – Special dividend 
‘RFPT’ - Reference price 
‘NLIQ’ - Negotiated (liquid) 
‘OILQ’ - Negotiated (illiquid) 
‘PRIC’ - Negotiated (conditions) 
‘ALGO’ – Algorithmic 

    ‘RFPT’ =Reference price transactions 

‘RPRI’ – Price improvement 

    ‘NLIQ’ =Negotiated transactions in liquid financial 
instruments 

   ‘OILQ’ =Negotiated transactions in illiquid financial 
instruments 

    ‘PRIC’ = Negotiated transactions subject to conditions 
other than the current market price 

‘DUPL’ – Duplicative 

‘TNCP – Not contributing to the 
price discovery process 
‘TPAC’ -  Package 

‘XFPH’ – Exchange for Physical 

    ‘ALGO’ = Algorithmic transactions 

    ‘RPRI’ = Transactions which have received price 
improvement 

    ‘DUPL’= Duplicative trade reports 

‘TNCP’ = Transactions not contributing to the price 
discovery process for the purposes of Article 23 of 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 

For non-equity instruments: 

‘TPAC’ = Package transaction 

‘XFPH’ =  Exchange for Physical transaction 

 

EN 

456 

EN 

 
 

 

 

64 

Commodity 
derivative indicator 

Indication as to whether the transaction reduces risk in an 
objectively measurable way in accordance with Article 57 
of Directive 2014/65/EU.  

‘true’ - yes 

‘false’- no 

Where the transaction is for a transmitted order that has 
met the conditions for transmission set out in Article 4, 
this field shall be populated by the receiving firm in the 
receiving firm’s reports using the information received 
from the transmitting firm. This field is only applicable 
for commodity derivative transactions. 

65 

Securities financing 
transaction  
indicator 

‘true’ shall be populated where the transaction falls within 
the scope of activity but is exempted from reporting under 
[Securities Financing Transactions Regulation]  

true - yes 

false- no 

‘false’ shall be populated where the transaction does not 
fall within the scope of activity under [Securities 
Financing Transactions Regulation] 

 

 

 

EN 

457 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex II:  

National client identifiers for natural persons to be used in transaction reports  

ISO 
3166 – 1 
alpha 2 

Country  
Name 

1st priority 

2nd priority 

3rd priority 

AT 

Austria 

CONCAT 

 

BE 

Belgium 

Belgian National Number 

(Numéro de registre national – 
Rijksregisternummer) 

CONCAT  

Bulgaria 

Bulgarian Personal Number 

 CONCAT 

Cyprus 

National Passport Number 

CONCAT 

Czech Republic 

National identification number 
(Rodné číslo) 

Passport Number 

CONCAT 

DE 

Germany 

Personal Identity Card Number 
(Personalausweisnummer) 

National Passport 
Number 

CONCAT 

 

  

  

  

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

  

  

  

BG 

CY 

CZ 

ES 

FI 

FR 

GB 

GR 

DK 

Denmark 

EE 

Estonia 

Personal identity code 

10 digits alphanumerical: 
DDMMYYXXXX 

Estonian Personal Identification 
Code 

(Isikukood) 

Spain 

Tax identification number  
(Código de identificación fiscal) 

CONCAT  

 

 

Finland 

Personal identity code 

CONCAT 

France 

CONCAT 

 

United 
Kingdom 

UK National Insurance number 

CONCAT 

Greece 

10 DSS digit investor share 

CONCAT 

HR 

Croatia 

Personal Identification Number  

(OIB – Osobni identifikacijski 
broj) 

 CONCAT 

HU 

Hungary 

CONCAT 

IE 

IS 

IT 

LI 

Ireland 

CONCAT 

Iceland 

Italy 

National Passport Number 

(Kennitala) 

Fiscal code 
(Codice fiscale) 

Liechtenstein 

National Passport Number 

  

  

 

  

EN 

458 

EN 

National Identity Card 
Number 

 CONCAT 

 
 

 

 

ISO 
3166 – 1 
alpha 2 

LT 

LU 

LV 

Country  
Name 

Lithuania 

1st priority 

Personal code  
(Asmens kodas) 

2nd priority 

3rd priority 

National Passport 
Number 

CONCAT 

CONCAT 

National Passport 
Number  

 

  

  

Luxembourg 

CONCAT 

 

Latvia 

Personal code 
(Personas kods) 

MT 

Malta 

National Identification Number 

NL 

Netherlands 

National Passport Number 

NO 

Norway 

11 digit personal id 
(Foedselsnummer) 

PL 

Poland 

National Identification Number 
(PESEL) 

National identity card 
number 

 CONCAT 

CONCAT 

Tax Number 
(Numer identyfikacji 
podatkowej) 

 

  

PT 

Portugal 

RO 

Romania 

Tax number 
(Número de Identificação Fiscal) 

National Passport 
Number 

National Identification Number  
(Cod Numeric Personal) 

National Passport 
Number 

CONCAT 

CONCAT 

SE 

Sweden 

Personal identity number 

CONCAT 

SI 

Slovenia 

Personal Identification Number 
(EMŠO: Enotna Matična Številka 
Občana) 

CONCAT 

 

  

SK 

Slovakia 

Personal number 
(Rodné číslo) 

National Passport 
Number 

CONCAT 

All other countries 

National Passport Number 

CONCAT 

 

 

 

 

EN 

459 

EN 

 
 

 

 
