 
 

 

 

CHAPTER 8: POST-TRADING ISSUES  

 Draft regulatory technical standards on the obligation to 
RTS 26:
clear  derivatives  traded  on  regulated  markets  and  timing  of 
acceptance for clearing (STP) 

 

 

  

  

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

 

  

 

EN 

 

508 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying 
the obligation to clear derivatives traded on regulated markets and timing 

of acceptance for clearing  

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,  

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council  of  15  May  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Regulation  (EU)  No 
648/2012, and in particular Article 29(3) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

In  order  to  manage  operational  and  other  risks,  when  transactions  in  cleared 
derivatives  are  submitted  and  accepted  for  clearing  and  to  provide  certainty  to 
counterparties  as  soon  as  possible,  it  is  important  to  determine  whether  a  cleared 
derivative  transaction  can  be  cleared  by  a  CCP  at  an  early  stage,  and  to  the  extent 
possible before the transaction is entered into.  

In  order  to  apply  scalable  technical  solutions  ensuring  that  transactions  in  cleared 
derivatives  can  be  submitted  and  accepted  for  clearing  as  quickly  as  technologically 
practicable,  the  information  needed  by  a  trading  venue  and  a  CCP  to  perform  their 
tasks  should  be  pre-determined  and  clearly  set  in  the  documentation  of  the  trading 
venue and the CCP. 

In order to appropriately price a cleared derivative transaction, counterparties take into 
account  that  centrally  cleared  transactions  are  subject  to  a  different  collateral  regime 
than non-centrally cleared transactions, regardless of whether the transaction is cleared 
because it is mandated to be cleared or whether the transaction is cleared because the 
relevant  parties  have  otherwise  agreed  for  it  to  be  cleared.  Therefore,  counterparties 
should  benefit  from  having  the  same  process  and  the  same  requirements  for  both 
mandatorily  cleared  and  voluntarily  cleared  derivative  transactions  to  ensure  cleared 
derivative  transactions  are  submitted  and  accepted  for  clearing  as  soon  as 
technologically practicable. 

EN 

 

509 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

  When  cleared  derivative  transactions  are  entered  into  on  a  trading  venue,  in  order  to 
identify before a transaction is entered into whether the transaction can be cleared by a 
CCP, the trading venue and the CCP should have rules to ensure a transaction that is 
entered into can be automatically cleared, otherwise the trading venue should provide 
the  ability  to  clearing  members  of  the  CCP  to  check  orders  against  the  limits  set  for 
their  clients.  When  a  trading  venue  or  a  clearing  member  are  using  the  services  of  a 
service  provider  to  perform  part  or  all  of  the  pre-trade  checks  applicable  in  this 
Regulation,  the  trading  venue  and  the  clearing  member  remain  responsible  for 
complying with the requirements applicable to each of them. 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

The time granted to a trading venue to process a cleared derivative transaction should 
be  shorter  for  electronically  traded  cleared  derivative  transactions  than  for  non-
electronically  traded  cleared  derivative  transactions  as  the  level  of  automated 
processing should be higher in the former case.  

A trading venue should send the information related to cleared derivative transactions 
to  a  CCP  in  a  pre-agreed  electronic  format,  for  both  electronically  traded  and  non-
electronically  traded  cleared  derivative  transactions.  Therefore,  the  time  granted  to  a 
CCP  to  decide  whether  a  cleared  derivative  transaction  can  be  accepted  for  clearing 
should  be  the  same  for  electronically  traded  and  non-electronically  traded  cleared 
derivative transactions. 

The  processing  of  cleared  derivative  transactions  entered  into  on  a  bilateral  basis  is 
usually  less  automated  than  the  processing  of  cleared  derivative  transactions  entered 
into  on  a  trading  venue.  Therefore,  the  time  granted  to  counterparties  to  submit  a 
cleared  derivative  transaction  entered  into  on  a  bilateral  basis  to  a  CCP  should  be 
longer than the time granted for a cleared derivative transaction executed on a trading 
venue.  

In  order  to  manage  the  credit  risks  related  to  cleared  derivative  transactions  that  are 
entered into on a bilateral basis, a CCP should allow a clearing member to review the 
transaction  details  of  its  client  and  to  decide  whether  to  accept  it.  As  the  process 
between  a  CCP  and  a  clearing  member  is  usually  automated,  this  process  should 
require limited time.  

CCPs  as  well  as  clearing  members  manage  credit  risk  associated  to  the  build-up  of 
current  exposures  resulting  from  the  clearing  of  cleared  derivatives.  Typically,  this 
includes the setting of limits  by the CCP or the clearing member per counterparty in 
order  to  mitigate  the  associated  exposure  risk,  which  can  result  in  new  requests  to 
clear certain cleared derivative transactions not being accepted by the clearing member 
or by the CCP. Ensuring that cleared derivative transactions are submitted to clearing 
as quickly as technologically practicable does not eliminate the risk that some of these 
cleared  derivative  transactions  could  not  be  accepted  for  clearing  under  specific 
circumstances.  Therefore,  when  cleared  derivative  transactions  are  not  accepted  for 

EN 

 

510 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

clearing,  counterparties  should  have  clarity  on  the  treatment  of  the  not  accepted 
transaction in order to take the status of the not accepted transaction into account when 
hedging their risk and continuing on with their usual activity. 

(10)

  As  the  processing  of  a  cleared  derivative  transaction  executed  electronically  on  a 
trading venue and submitted for clearing to a CCP requires limited time, the time for 
the market to move and for the value and the risk of the cleared derivative transaction 
to  change  in  between  the  order  and  the  non-acceptance  would  also  be  very  limited, 
therefore  there  should  be  no  or  extremely  limited  damage  suffered  by  the 
counterparties whose transactions are not accepted by the CCP. To provide certainty to 
counterparties,  cleared  derivative  transactions  executed  electronically  on  a  trading 
venue and not accepted by a CCP should be considered void.  

(11)

  As  the  processing  of  cleared  derivative  transactions  other  than  cleared  derivative 
transactions  executed  electronically  on  a  trading  venue  usually  takes  some  time,  this 
period of time may be sufficiently long for the market to have moved and for the value 
and the risk of the cleared derivative transaction to  have changed significantly in  the 
meantime,  therefore  the  voiding  of  the  transaction  could  not  be  applied  as  the 
appropriate treatment for all non-acceptances. To provide certainty on the treatment of 
such  transactions  not  accepted  by  a  CCP,  the  counterparties  should  still  know  in 
advance how the transaction is to be treated, relying on the rules of the trading venue 
or on the contractual arrangements between the counterparties where appropriate. 

(12)

  When  a  cleared  derivative  transaction  is  not  accepted  for  clearing  for  reasons  other 
than credit reasons, the counterparties may still want to be counterparties to a cleared 
derivative  transaction  with  the  same  economic  terms  and  that  could  be  accepted  for 
clearing  if  not  for  these  non-credit  reasons.  When  both  counterparties  agree  to  re-
submit the transaction, as long as it is within a relatively short period of time from the 
first  submission,  and  that  it  allows  the  investigation  and  the  resolution  of  the  non-
credit reasons why the transaction was not accepted, a second submission in the form 
of  a  new  cleared  derivative  transaction  with  the  same  economic  terms  would  still 
ensure proper management of operational or other risks.  

(13)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 1 applies  from  3  January 
2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this Regulation should apply from the 
same date. 

                                                 

1 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84). 

EN 

 

511 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(14)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(15)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Arrangements to facilitate the transfer of information  

1.  A trading venue shall detail in its rules the information it needs from counterparties to a 
cleared derivative transaction in order to submit that cleared derivative transaction to a CCP 
for clearing and the format in which that information shall be provided.  

2.  A CCP shall detail  in  its rules the information  it  needs from counterparties to  a cleared 
derivative  transaction  and  from  trading  venues  in  order  to  clear  a  cleared  derivative 
transaction submitted to it and the format in which that information shall be provided. 

 

Article 2 

Pre-trade check for cleared derivative transactions executed on a trading venue 

1.  Trading  venues  and  clearing  members  shall  subject  orders  for  the  execution  of  cleared 
derivative transactions on a trading venue to  the requirements set out in paragraphs 2 and 3, 
except where all the conditions set out in points (a), (b) and (c)  are satisfied:  

(a)  the  rules  of  the  trading  venue  require  that  each  member  or  participant  of  the  trading 
venue, which is not  a clearing member of a CCP through which the cleared derivative 
transaction is cleared, has a contractual arrangement with a clearing member of the CCP 
under  which  the  clearing  member  automatically  becomes  counterparty  to  the  cleared 
derivative transaction;  

                                                 

2    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

 

512 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  the  rules  of  the  CCP  provide  that  the  cleared  derivative  transaction  executed  on  a 
trading  venue  is  cleared  automaticallyand  immediately,  with  the  clearing  member 
referred to in point (a) becoming the counterparty to the CCP;  

(c)  the  rules  of  the  trading  venue  provide  that  the  member  or  participant  of  the  trading 
venue or its client becomes counterparty to the cleared derivative transaction, pursuant 
to direct or indirect clearing arrangements. 

2.  A  trading  venue  shall  provide  tools  to  ensure  pre-execution  screening  on  an  order-by-
order basis by each clearing member of the limits set and maintained by that clearing member 
for  its  client  pursuant  to  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  xxx  (MiFIR  RTS  6 
Regulation number OJ L […], […], p. […])).  

3.  A trading venue shall ensure before the execution of the order that the order of the client 
is within the limits applicable to this client in accordance with paragraph 2:  

(a)  within  60  seconds  from  the  receipt  of  the  order  when  the  order  is  entered  into 

electronically; 

(b)  within  10  minutes  from  the  receipt  of  the  order  when  the  order  is  not  entered  into 

electronically. 

When the order is not within the limits applicable to the client in accordance with paragraph 
2, the trading venue shall inform the client and the clearing member that the order cannot be 
executed: 

(c)  on a real time basis when the order is entered into electronically; 

(d)  within 5 minutes from when the order was checked against the applicable limits as per 

the first sub paragraph, when the order is not entered into electronically.  

 

Article 3 

Timeframes for the transfer of information for cleared derivative transactions executed 

on a trading venue 

1.  The trading venue, the CCP and the clearing member shall be subject to the requirements 
set out in paragraphs 2 to 5 of this Article except where all the requirements of Article 2(1) 
are met.  

2.  For cleared derivative transactions that are executed on a trading venue electronically, the 
trading  venue  shall  send  the  information  related  to  each  transaction  to  the  CCP  within  10 
seconds from the execution of the transaction. 

EN 

 

513 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

3.  For  cleared  derivative  transactions  that  are  executed  on  a  trading  venue  non-
electronically, the trading venue shall send the information related to  each transaction to the 
CCP within 10 minutes from the execution of the transaction. 

4.  A CCP shall accept or not accept the clearing of a cleared derivative transaction executed 
on a trading venue within 10 seconds from receiving the information from the trading venue 
and  inform  the  clearing  member  and  the  trading  venue  of  a  non-acceptance  on  a  real  time 
basis.  

5.  The  clearing  member  and  the  trading  venue  shall  inform  the  counterparty  that  executed 
the cleared derivative transaction on the trading  venue of the non-acceptance as soon as the 
CCP has informed them of a non-acceptance.  

 

Article 4 

Timeframes for the transfer of information for cleared derivative transactions executed 

on a bilateral basis 

1.  For  cleared  derivative  transactions  executed  by  counterparties  on  a  bilateral  basis,  the 
clearing member shall:  

(a)  obtain evidence from its client of the execution timeframe of the transaction they clear;  

(b)  ensure that the counterparties send to the CCP the information referred to in Article 1(2) 

related to the transaction within 30 minutes from the execution of the transaction. 

2.  For  cleared  derivative  transactions  executed  by  counterparties  on  a  bilateral  basis,  the 
CCP shall send to its clearing member the information referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 
related  to  the  transaction  within  60  seconds  from  receiving  this  information  from  the 
counterparties.  The  clearing  member  shall  accept  or  not  accept  the  transaction  within  60 
seconds from receiving the information from the CCP. 

3.  The  CCP  shall  accept  or  not  accept  the  clearing  of  a  cleared  derivative  transaction 
executed  on  a  bilateral  basis  within  10  seconds  from  the  receipt  of  the  clearing  member’s 
acceptance or non-acceptance. 

4.  However,  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  this  Article  shall  not  apply  where  all  the  following 
conditions are met: 

(a)  the rules of the CCP ensure the setting and the maintenance on a regular basis of limits 
by a clearing member for its client pursuant to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
xxx (MiFIR RTS 6 Regulation number OJ L […], […], p. […]);  

EN 

 

514 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  the rules of the CCP provide that a cleared derivative transaction that is within the limits 
in  accordance  with  point  (a)  is  cleared  automatically  by  the  CCP  within  60  seconds 
from  receiving  the  information  on  the  cleared  derivative  transaction  from  the 
counterparties. 

5.  The CCP that does not accept the clearing of a cleared derivative transaction executed on 
a bilateral basis shall inform the clearing member of the non-acceptance on a real time basis. 
The  clearing  member  shall  inform  of  the  non-acceptance  the  counterparty  that  executed  the 
transaction as soon as it is informed by the CCP.  

 

Treatment of cleared derivative transactions not accepted for clearing 

Article 5 

1.  Where a cleared derivative transaction that is executed on a trading venue electronically 
is not accepted by the CCP, the trading venue shall void such contract.  

2.  Where a cleared derivative transaction, other than cleared derivative transactions that are 
executed on a trading venue electronically, is  not  accepted by the CCP, the treatment  of the 
transaction shall be governed by: 

(a)  the rules of the trading venue when the contract is submitted to clearing in accordance 

with the rules of the trading venue; 

(b)  the agreement between the counterparties in the other situations.  

3.  Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, when the non-acceptance is due 
to  a  technical  or  clerical  problem,  the  cleared  derivative  transaction  can  be  submitted  for 
clearing  once  more  within  one  hour  from  the  previous  submission  in  the  form  of  a  new 
transaction but with the same economic terms, provided that both counterparties have agreed 
to this second submission. The trading venue, on which the cleared derivative transaction was 
initially executed shall not be subject to the requirements of Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014 for the submission to clearing of the new cleared derivative transaction. 

 

Article 6 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

EN 

 

515 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position]

EN 

 

516 

  EN 

 
 

 
