 
 

 

 

CHAPTER 6: COMMODITY DERIVATIVES  

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  criteria  for 
RTS 20:
establishing when an activity is to be considered to be ancillary to 
the main business 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

393 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for criteria to 

establish when an activity is considered to be ancillary to the main business 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May 2014 on markets in financial instruments1, and in particular Article 2(4) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

The  assessment  whether  persons  are  dealing  on  own  account  or  are  providing 
investment  services  in  commodity  derivatives,  emission  allowances  and  derivatives 
thereof  in  the  Union  as  an  activity  ancillary  to  their  main  business  should  be 
performed at a group level. In line with Article 2(11) of Directive 2013/34/EU of the 
European Parliament and of the Council2, a group is considered to comprise the parent 
undertaking and  all its subsidiary undertakings and includes entities domiciled in  the 
Union and in third countries regardless of whether the group is headquartered inside or 
outside the Union.  

The assessment should be performed in the form of two tests, which are both based on 
the trading activity of the persons within the group and should be calculated on a per-
asset-class basis. The first test should determine whether the persons within the group 
are large participants relative to the size of the financial market in that asset class and 
as a consequence should be required to obtain authorisation as an investment firm. The 
second  test  should  determine  whether  the  persons  within  the  group  trade  on  own 
account or provide investment services in commodity derivatives, emission allowances 
or derivatives thereof to such a large extent relative to the main business of the group 
that  those  activities  cannot  be  considered  to  be  ancillary  at  group  level  and  that 
therefore the persons should be required to obtain authorisation as an investment firm. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 349. 
2 Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial 
statements,  consolidated  financial  statements  and  related  reports  of  certain  types  of  undertakings,  amending 
Directive  2006/43/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  and  repealing  Council  Directives 
78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19). 

EN 

394 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

Where persons within the group operate simultaneously in different asset classes and 
exceed  the  threshold  in  relation  to  one  asset  class,  it  should  be  subject  to  Directive 
2014/65/EU for all commodity classes.    

The  first  test  compares  the  level  of  a  person’s  trading  activity  against  the  overall 
trading activity in the Union on an asset class basis to determine the person’s market 
share. The size of the trading activity should be determined by deducting the sum  of 
the  volume  of  the  transactions  referred  to  in  points  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  of  the  fifth 
subparagraph  of  Article  2(4),  fifth  subparagraph  ('privileged  transactions')  from  the 
volume of the overall trading activity undertaken by the group.  

The volume of the trading activity should be determined by the gross notional value of 
contracts  in  commodity  derivatives,  emission  allowances  and  derivatives  thereof  on 
the basis of a rolling annual average of the preceding three calendar years. The overall 
market  size  should  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  trading  activity  undertaken  in  the 
Union  in  relation  to  each  asset  class:  metals,  oil,  coal,  emission  allowances  and 
derivatives thereof, gas, power, agricultural products and other commodities. Trading 
activity comprises trading in contracts traded ouside trading venues to which a person 
that  is  located  in  a  Member  State  is  party  and  contracts  that  are  traded  on  trading 
venues located in a Member State.  

As  commodity  markets  differ  significantly  in  terms  of  size,  number  of  market 
participants, level of liquidity and other characteristics, different thresholds shall apply 
for different asset classes in relation to the test on the size of the trading activity.  

The  second  test  assesses  the  size  of  the  trading  activity,  excluding  privileged 
transactions and transactions executed by authorised entities of the group, undertaken 
by the group in all asset classes (the numerator) against the size of the overall trading 
activity,  including  privileged  transactions  and  transactions  executed  by  authorised 
entities  of  the  group,  undertaken  by  the  group  in  total  for  all  asset  classes  (the 
denominator).  

The  size  of  the  trading  activity  as  used  in  the  second  test,  including  privileged 
transactions  and  transactions  executed  by  authorised  entities,  is  taken  as  a  proxy  for 
the commercial activity that the person or group does as its main business. This proxy 
should  be  easy  and  cost  efficient  for  persons  to  apply  as  it  builds  on  data  already 
required  to  be  collected  for  the  first  test  while  at  the  same  time  establishing  a 
meaningful test.  

A  rational  risk-averse  entity,  such  as  a  producer,  processor  or  consumer  of 
commodities,  will  seek  to  hedge  the  volume  of  the  commercial  activity  of  its  main 
business with an equivalent volume of commodity derivatives, emission allowances or 
derivatives  thereof.  Therefore  the  volume  of  turnover  of  commodity  derivatives 
measured in the gross notional value of the underlying, which are purchased or sold is 
an appropriate proxy for the size of the main business of the group. Main business of 

EN 

395 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(9)

 

(10)

the group that is not related to commodities would not use commodity derivatives as a 
risk-reducing  tool  and  therefore  any  co-existing  trading  in  commodity  derivatives 
would ab initio be speculative and unable to benefit from the ancillary exemption.  

The  second  test  may  inadvertently  capture  persons  with  a  high  proportion  of  trading 
which  is  neither  privileged  transactions  nor  executed  in  an  authorised  entity  of  the 
group but  nevertheless  have a very low level  of trading activity in  total.  IN addition, 
hedging activity  cannot be considere a perfect  proxy for the commercial activity that 
the person or group conducts as its main business as it does not take into account other 
investments  of  commodity  market  participants  in  fixed  assets  unrelated  to  derivative 
markets.  Therefore,  the  second  test  should  not  solely  operate  on  the  basis  of  the 
application  of  this  proxy  but  rather  should  contain  a  backstop  mechanism  which 
recognises that the trading activity undertaken by the persons within the group should 
also  exceed  a  certain  percentage  of  any  of  the  thresholds  set  under  the  first  test  for 
each relevant asset class to be deemed non-ancillary. The higher the percentage of the 
speculative activity within all trading activity, the lower this threshold. Calibrating the 
main business test in this way should ensure that only relevant and sizable participants 
in  European  commodity  derivative  markets  should  be  determined  as  not  conducting 
their activities as ancillary to their main business.  

  The rationale of the ancillary activity tests  is  to  check whether entities not  subject  to 
financial regulation  should be required to  acquire an authorisation  due to the relative 
or  absolute  size  of  their  activity  in  commodity  derivatives,  emission  allowances  and 
derivatives  thereof  The  ancillary  activity  tests  determine  the  size  of  activities  in 
commodity  derivatives,  emission  allowances  and  derivatives  thereof  which  entities 
within a group may carry out without authorisation under Directive 2014/65/EU due to 
those  activities  being  ancillary  to  the  group’s  main  business.  The  group  level 
assessment means that it is appropriate to calculate the size of the ancillary activity of 
the group by using criteria which exclude certain privileged transactions and activity 
carried  out  by  authorised  group  members.  This  is  because  these  transactions  serve 
regulatory  or  commercial  purposes  or  are  otherwise  already  subject  to  appropriate 
supervision.  Without  excluding  the  activity  of  authorised  group  members,  the 
exemption  could  have  the  effect  of  requiring  the  consolidation  of  genuine  ancillary 
activity carried out by unauthorised group members, for example, persons which only 
execute  privileged  transactions,  into  the  trading  activity  of  its  authorised  members 
solely  as  a  result  of  the  size  of  the  supervised  trading  activity  of  those  authorised 
members.  Trading  activity  undertaken  by  an  authorised  entity  of  the  group  should 
therefore  be  excluded  from  the  calculations  of  the  ancillary  activity  undertaken  by 
unauthorised members of the group as it is already appropriately authorised.  

(11)

 

In order to allow for market participants to plan and operate a business in a reasonable 
way and to take into account seasonal patterns of activity, the calculation of the tests 
determining when an activity is considered to be ancillary to the main business should 
be based on a period of three years. Therefore, entities should perform the assessment 
whether  they  breach  one  of  the  two  thresholds  on  an  annual  basis  by  calculating  a 

EN 

396 

EN 

 
 

 

 

simple  average  of  three  years  on  a  rolling  basis  in  order  to  be  able  to  submit  their 
annual  notification  to  the  competent  authority.  This  obligation  should  be  without 
prejudice to the right of the competent authority to request at any time a report from a 
person about the basis on which that person considers its activity under points (i) and 
(ii) under point (j) of Article 2(4) of Directive 2014/65/EU to be ancillary to its main 
business. 

(12)

  Transactions objectively measurable as reducing risks directly relating to commercial 
activity  or  treasury  financing  activity  and  intra-group  transactions  should  be 
considered  in  a  way  consistent  with  Regulation  (EU)  No.  648/2012  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of  the  Council3.  However,  in  relation  to  transactions  in  derivatives 
which are objectively measurable as reducing risks directly relating to the commercial 
activity  or  treasury  financing  activity  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No 
149/20134 only refers to derivatives not traded on regulated markets while Article 2(4) 
of Directive 2014/65/EU covers derivatives traded on trading venues. Therefore, this 
Regulation  should  also  take  into  account  derivatives  traded  on  regulated  markets  in 
relation to transactions that are deemed to be objectively measurable as reducing risks 
directly related to commercial or treasury financing activity.  

(13)

 

In some circumstances, it may not be possible to hedge a commercial risk by using a 
directly  related  commodity  derivative  contract:  a  contract  with  exactly  the  same 
underlying and settlement date as the risk being covered. In such case, the person may 
use proxy hedging through a closely correlated instrument to cover its exposure such 
as  an  instrument  with  a  different  but  very  close  underlying  in  terms  of  economic 
behaviour.  Additionally,  macro  or  portfolio  hedging  may  be  used  by  persons,  which 
enter  into  commodity  derivative  contracts  to  hedge  a  risk  in  relation  to  their  overall 
risks  or  the  overall  risks  of  the  group.  Those  macro,  portfolio  or  proxy  hedging 
commodity  derivative  contracts  may  constitute  hedging  for  the  purpose  of  this 
Regulation.  

(14)

  When a person applying the ancillary activity test uses portfolio or macro hedging, it 
may  not  be  able  to  establish  a  one-to-one  link  between  a  specific  transaction  in  a 
commodity  derivative  and  a  specific  risk  directly  related  to  the  commercial  and 
treasury  financing  activities  entered  into  to  hedge  it.  The  risks  directly  related  to  the 
commercial and treasury financing activities may be of a complex nature e.g. several 
geographic  markets,  several  products,  time  horizons  or  entities.  The  portfolio  of 
commodity  derivative  contracts  entered  into  to  mitigate  those  risks  may  derive  from 

                                                 

3  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  July  2012  on  OTC 
derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p. 1). 
4 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 149/2013 of 19 December 2012 supplementing Regulation (EU) 
No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  with  regard  to  regulatory  technical  standards  on 
indirect  clearing  arrangements,  the  clearing  obligation,  the  public  register,  access  to  a  trading  venue,  non-
financial counterparties, and risk mitigation techniques for OTC derivatives contracts not cleared by a CCP (OJ 
L 52, 23.2.2013, p. 11).  

EN 

397 

EN 

 
 

 

 

complex risk management systems. In such cases the risk management systems should 
prevent non-hedging transactions from being categorised as hedging and provide for a 
sufficiently disaggregate view of the hedging portfolio so that speculative components 
are  identified  and  counted  towards  the  thresholds.  Positions  should  not  qualify  as 
reducing risks related to commercial activity solely on the grounds that they form par 
of a risk-reducing portfolio on an overall basis.  

(15)

  A  risk  may  evolve  over  time  and,  in  order  to  adapt  to  the  evolution  of  the  risk, 
commodity  derivatives  initially  executed  for  reducing  risk  related  to  commercial 
activity,  may  have  to  be  offset  through  the  use  of  additional  commodity  derivative 
contracts.  As  a  result,  hedging  of  a  risk  may  be  achieved  by  a  combination  of 
commodity  derivative  contracts  including  offsetting  commodity  derivative  contracts 
that close out those commodity derivative contracts that have become unrelated to the 
commercial risk.  Additionally the evolution of a risk that has been addressed by the 
entering into of a position in a commodity derivative for the purpose of reducing that 
risk should not subsequently give rise to the re-evaluation of that position as being not 
a privileged transaction ab initio. 

(16)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 5 applies  from  3  January 
2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this Regulation should apply from the 
same date.  

(17)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(18)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council6. 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1  

Application of thresholds 

                                                 

5 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84). 
6  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

398 

EN 

 
 

 

 

The  activities  of  a  person  referred  to  in  points  (i)  and  (ii)  of  Article  2(1)(j)  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU  shall  be  considered  to  be  ancillary  to  the  main  business  of  the  group  if  that 
person  meets  the  conditions  set  out  in  Article  2  and  that  person’s  activities  constitute  a 
minority of activities at group level in accordance with Article 3. 

 

Article 2  

Trading activity threshold 

1.  The size of the trading activity calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 divided by the 
overall market trading activity calculated in accordance with paragraph 3 shall, in each of the 
following asset classes, account for less than the following values: 

(a)  4 %  in relation to derivatives on metals;  

(b)  3 % in relation to derivatives on oil and oil products; 

(c)  10 % in relation to derivatives on coal; 

(d)  3 % in relation to derivatives on gas; 

(e)  6 % in relation to derivatives on power;  

(f)  4 % in relation to derivatives on agricultural products;   

(g)  15 % in relation to derivatives on other commodities, including freight and commodities 

referred to in Section C 10 of Annex I to Directive 2014/65/EU;  

(h)  20 % in relation to emission allowances or derivatives thereof. 

2.  The size of the trading activity undertaken by persons within a group in each of the asset 
classes referred to in paragraph 1 shall be calculated by aggregating the gross notional value 
of all contracts within the relevant asset class to which those persons are a party. 

The aggregation referred to in the first subparagraph shall not include contracts resulting from 
transactions referred to  in points (a), (b) and (c)  of  the  fifth  subparagraph of Article 2(4) of 
Directive  2014/65/EU  and  transactins  executed  in  an  entitiy  of  the  group  authorised  in 
accordance with Directive 2014/65/EU or Directive 2013/36/EU. 

The overall market trading activity in each of the asset classes referred to in paragraph 
3. 
1  shall  be  calculated  by  aggregating  the  gross  notional  value  of  all  contracts  that  are  not 
traded  on  a  trading  venue  within  the  relevant  asset  class  to  which  any  person  located  in  a 
Member State is  a party and of any other contract  within that  asset class  that is  traded on a 
trading venue located in a Member State  .  

4. 

The gross notional value shall be denominated in EUR. 

EN 

399 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Article 3 

Main business threshold 

1.  Ancillary activities shall be considered to constitute a minority of activities at group level 
compared to the main business of the group where the size of the trading activities calculated 
in accordance with paragraph 34 does not account for more than 10% of the total size of the 
trading activity of the group calculated in accordance with paragraph 4.   

2.  By way of derogation from paragraph 1,  

(a)  where  the  size  of  the  trading  activities  calculated  in  accordance  with  paragraph  34 
accounts for more than 10% but less than 50% of the total size of the trading activity of 
the  group  calculated  in  accordance  with  paragraph  4,  ancillary  activities  shall  be 
considered to constitute a minority of activities at group level only where the size of the 
trading activity for each of the asset classes referred to in Article 2(1) accounts for less 
than 50% of the threshold established by Article 2(1) of the overall market’s size in the 
relevant asset class. 

(b)  where  the  size  of  the  trading  activity  calculated  in  accordance  with  paragraph  34 
accounts for equal to or more than 50% of the size of the trading activity calculated in 
accordance  with  paragraph  4,  ancillary  activities  shall  be  considered  to  constitute  a 
minority of activities at group level only where the size of the trading activity for each 
of the asset classes referred to in Article 2(1) accounts for less than 20% of the threshold 
established by Article 2(1) of the overall market’s size in the relevant asset class. 

3.  The  size  of  the  activities  referred  to  in  points  (i)  and  (ii)  of  Article  2(1)(j)  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU  undertaken  by  persons  within  a  group  shall  be  calculated  by  aggregating  the 
trading  activity  undertaken  by  those  persons  in  all  of  the  asset  classes  referred  to  in  Article 
2(1) in accordance with the same calculation criteria as that referred to in Article 2(2). 

4.  The  total  size  of  the  trading  activity  undertaken  by  persons  within  a  group  shall  be 
calculated by aggregating the gross notional value of all contracts in financial instruments to 
which persons within that group are a party to.  

5.  The gross notional value shall be denominated in EUR. 

 

Article 4  

Procedure for calculation   

1.  The calculation of the size of the trading activities referred to in Articles 2 and 3 shall be 
undertaken annually on the basis of a simple average of the trading activities carried out in the 
three annual calculation periods preceding the date of calculation. 

EN 

400 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  By derogation to paragraph 1, the calculation of the size of the trading activities shall be 
undertaken on the following basis: 

(a)  before 1 July 2017, it shall only take into account the trading activities carried out from 

1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016; 

(b)  between 1 July 2017 and 30 June 2018 it shall only take into account the simple average 
of  two  annual  calculation  periods  based  on  the  trading  activities  carried  out  from  the 
calendar year of 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2017; 

(c)  In the case of a persion that has no trading activity prior to an annual calculation period 
referred  to  in  subparagraph  (b)  or  paragraph  1,  it  shall  only  take  into  account  trading 
activities carried out in the annual calculation period in which that person commenced 
trading and any following annual calculation period.  

3.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraphs  1  and  2,  references  to  an  ‘annual  calculation  period’ 
means a period which starts on 1 July of a given year and ends on 30 June in the following 
year.  

 

Article 5 

Transactions qualifying as reducing risks  

1.  For  the  purposes  of  the  fifth  subparagraph  of  point  (b)  of  Article  2(4),  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU, a transaction in derivatives shall be considered to reduce objectively measurable 
risks  directly  relating  to  commercial  activity  or  treasury  financing  activity  when  one  of  the 
following criteria are met: 

(a)  it  reduces  the  risks  arising  from  the  potential  change  in  the  value  of  assets,  services, 
inputs, products, commodities or liabilities that the person or its group owns, produces, 
manufactures,  processes,  provides,  purchases,  merchandises,  leases,  sells,  or  incurs  or 
reasonably  anticipates  owning,  producing,  manufacturing,  processing,  providing, 
purchasing,  merchandising,  leasing,  selling  or  incurring  in  the  normal  course  of  its 
business; 

(b)  it  covers  the  risks  arising  from  the  potential  indirect  impact  on  the  value  of  assets, 
services,  inputs,  products,  commodities  or  liabilities  referred  to  in  point  (a),  resulting 
from fluctuation of interest rates, inflation rates, foreign exchange rates or credit risk;  

(c)  it  qualifies  as  a  hedging  contract  pursuant  to  International  Financial  Reporting 
Standards adopted in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the 
European Parliament and Council.   

2.  For the purposes of paragraph 1, a qualifying risk-reducing transaction taken on its own 
or in combination with other derivatives is one for which the non-financial entity:  

EN 

401 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(a)  describes the following in its internal policies: 

(i)  the  types  of  commodity  derivative  contracts  included  in  the  portfolios  used  to 

reduce risks directly relating to commercial activity and their eligibility criteria; 

(ii)  the link between the portfolio and the risks that the portfolio is mitigating; 

(iii) the measures adopted to  ensure that the transactions concerning those contracts 
serve  no  other  purpose  than  covering  risks  directly  related  to  the  commercial 
activities of the non-financial entity, and that any transaction serving a different 
purpose can be clearly identified;  

(b)  is able to provide a sufficiently disaggregate view of the portfolios in terms of class of 
commodity  derivative,  underlying  commodity,  time  horizon  and  any  other  relevant 
factors.  

Article 6 

Entry into force and application  

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

402 

EN 

 
 

 
