 

 

 

 Draft 

RTS 25:
synchronization  

regulatory 

technical 

standards 

on 

clock 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION   

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/..   

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

501 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/… 

of [   ] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the level of 

accuracy of business clocks  

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1, and in particular the third subparagraph of Article 50(2) thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

Clock synchronisation has a direct impact in many areas. In particular it contributes to 
ensuring that post-trade transparency data can readily be part of a reliable consolidated 
tape. It is also essential for conducting cross-venue monitoring of orders and detecting 
instances of market abuse and allows for a clearer comparison between the transaction 
and the market conditions prevailing at the time of their execution.  

The  number  of  orders  received  every  second  by  a  trading  venue  can  be  very  high, 
much higher than that of executed transactions. This may extend to several thousands 
of  orders  per  second  depending  on  the  trading  venue,  the  type  of  members  or 
participants  or  clients  of  a  given  trading  venue,  and  the  financial  instruments’ 
volatility  and  liquidity.  As  a  result,  a  time  granularity  of  one  second  would  not  be 
sufficient  for  the  purposes  of  effective  market  manipulation  surveillance  of  certain 
types of trading activities. Therefore, it is necessary to establish minimum granularity 
requirements  for  recording  the  date  and  time  of  reportable  events  by  operators  of 
trading venues and their members or participants.  

Competent  authorities  need  to  be  able  to  reconstruct  all  events  relating  to  an  order 
throughout  the  lifetime  of  each  order  in  an  accurate  time  sequence.  Competent 
authorities need to be able to reconstruct these events over multiple trading venues on 
a consolidated level to be able to conduct effective cross-venue monitoring on market 
abuse.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  establish  a  common  reference  time  and  rules  on 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

502 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

 

maximum divergence from the common reference time to ensure that all operators of 
trading venues and their members or participants are recording the date and time based 
on  the  same  time  source  and  in  accordance  with  consistent  standards.  It  is  also 
necessary  to  provide  for  accurate  time  stamping  to  allow  competent  authorities  to 
distinguish  between  different  reportable  events  which  may  otherwise  appear  to  have 
taken place at the same time.  

There are however, trading models for which increased accuracy might not be relevant 
or  feasible.  Voice  trading  systems  or  request  for  quote  systems  where  the  response 
requires human intervention or does not  allow algorithmic trading, or systems which 
are used for concluding negotiated transactions should be subject to different accuracy 
standards. Trading venues operating those trading systems are not typically susceptible 
to the high volume of events that can happen within the same second, meaning that it 
is not necessary to impose a finer granularity to time stamping of those events since it 
is  less  likely  that  there  would  be  multiple  events  occurring  at  the  same  time.  In 
addition, trades on those trading venues may be agreed using manual methods which 
can take time to agree. In those trading venues there is also an inherent delay between 
the moment when the trade is executed and the moment when the trade is recorded in 
the  trading  system,  meaning  that  applying  more  stringent  accuracy  requirements 
would  not  necessarily  lead  to  more  meaningful  and  accurate  record  keeping  by  the 
operator of the trading venue, its members or participants. 

Competent  authorities  need  to  understand  how  trading  venues  and  their  members  or 
participants are ensuring their traceability to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). This 
is  because  of  the  complexity  of  the  different  systems  and  the  number  of  alternative 
methods that can be used to synchronise to UTC. Given that clock drift can be affected 
by many different elements, it is also appropriate to determine an acceptance level for 
the maximum divergence from UTC. 

This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

                                                 

2  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

503 

EN 

 
 

 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Reference time  

Operators of trading venues and their members or participants shall synchronise the business 
clocks  they  use  to  record  the  date  and  time  of  any  reportable  event  with  the  Coordinated 
Universal Time (UTC) issued and maintained by the timing centres listed in the latest Bureau 
International  des  Poids  et  Mesures  Annual  Report  on  Time  Activities.  Operators  of  trading 
venues and their members or participants may also synchronise the business clocks they use 
to  record  the  date  and  time  of  any  reportable  event  with  UTC  disseminated  by  a  satellite 
system, provided that any offset from UTC is accounted for and removed from the timestamp. 

 

Article 2 

Level of accuracy for operators of trading venues 

1.  Operators of trading venues shall ensure that their business clocks adhere to the levels of 
accuracy  specified  in  Table  1  of  the  Annex  according  to  the  gateway  to  gateway  latency  of 
each of their trading systems.  

Gateway  to  gateway  latency  shall  be  the  time  measured  from  the  moment  a  message  is 
received by an outer gateway of the trading venue’s system, sent through the order submission 
protocol, processed by the matching engine, and then sent back until an acknowledgement is 
sent from the gateway. 

2.  By derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, operators of trading venues that operate a 
voice  trading  system,  request  for  quote  system  where  the  response  requires  human 
intervention  or  does  not  allow  algorithmic  trading,  or  a  system  that  formalises  negotiated 
transactions in accordance with Article 4(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 shall ensure 
that  their  business  clocks  do  not  diverge  by  more  than  one  second  from  UTC  referred  to  in 
Article 1(1) of this Regulation. The operator of the trading venue shall ensure that times are 
recorded to at least a one second granularity. 

3.  Operators  of  trading  venues  that  operate  multiple  types  of  trading  systems  shall  ensure 
that each system adheres to the level of accuracy applicable to that system in accordance with 
paragraphs 1 and 2. 

 

EN 

Level of accuracy for members or participants of a trading venue 

Article 3 

504 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  Members or participants of trading venues shall ensure that their business clocks used to 
record the time of reportable events adhere to the level of accuracy specified in Table 2 of the 
Annex. 

2.  Members  or  participants  of  trading  venues  that  engage  in  multiple  types  of  trading 
activities shall ensure that the systems that they use to record reportable events adhere to the 
level  of  accuracy  applicable  to  each  of  these  trading  activities  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set out in Table 2 of the Annex. 

 

Article 4 

Compliance with the maximum divergence requirements 

Operators  of  trading  venues  and  their  members  or  participants  shall  establish  a  system  of 
traceability  to  UTC.  They  shall  be  able  to  demonstrate  traceability  to  UTC  by  documenting 
the  system  design,  functioning  and  specifications.  They  shall  be  able  to  identify  the  exact 
point at which a timestamp is applied and demonstrate that the point within the system where 
the timestamp is applied remains consistent. Reviews of the compliance with this Regulation 
of the traceability system shall be conducted at least once a year. 

 

Article 5  

Entry into force 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

505 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex  

Table 1  

Level of accuracy for operators of trading venues  

Gateway-to-gateway latency time 

Maximum divergence from UTC 

Granularity of the timestamp 

of the trading system 

> 1 millisecond  

1 millisecond 

1 millisecond or better  

=< 1 millisecond 

100 microseconds 

1 microsecond or better  

 

 

 

EN 

 

506 

  EN 

 
 

 

 

Table 2 

Level of accuracy for members or participants of a trading venue  

Type of trading activity   Description 

Maximum 

Granularity of the timestamp 

divergence from 

UTC 

Activity  using  high 

High frequency 

100 microseconds   

1 microsecond or better 

frequency algorithmic 

algorithmic trading 

trading technique   

technique.  

Activity on voice trading 

Voice trading 

1 second 

1 second or better 

systems 

systems as defined in 

Article 1(7) of RTS 

transparency 

requirements in 

respects of bonds, 

structured financial 

products ect... 

Activity on request for 

Request for quotes 

1 second 

1 second or better 

quote systems where the 

systems as defined in 

response requires human 

Article 1(6) of RTS 9 

intervention or where the 

transparency 

system does not allow 

requirements in 

algorithmic trading 

respects of bonds, 

 

structured financial 

products ect... 

Activity of concluding 

Negotiated 

1 second 

1 second or better 

negotiated transactions 

transaction as defined 

under Article 4(1)(b) 

of  Regulation (EU) 

600/2014 

Any other trading activity   All other trading 

1 millisecond 

1 millisecond or better 

activity not covered 

by this table. 

EN 

 

507 

  EN 

 
 

 
