

RTS 3:
mechanism  and  the  provision  of  information  for  the  purposes  of 
transparency and other calculations 

 

 

  

  

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

 

  

 

EN 

173 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 

and of the Council on markets in financial instruments with regard to 
regulatory technical standards on the volume cap mechanism and the 
provision of information for the purposes of transparency and other 

calculations  

(Text with EEA relevance) 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/20121, and in particular Articles 5(9) and 22(4),  
Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  requires  competent  authorities  and  the  European 
Securities  and  Markets  Authority  (ESMA)  to  perform  a  significant  number  of 
calculations  in  order  to  calibrate  the  applicability  of  the  pre-trade  and  post-  trade 
transparency regime and the trading obligation for derivatives as well as to determine 
whether an investment firm is a systematic internaliser.  

In order to perform the necessary calculations, both competent authorities and ESMA 
need  to  be  able  to  obtain  robust  and  high  quality  data  for  each  asset  class  to  which 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 applies. The provisions in this Regulation will improve 
both  the  accessibility  and  the  quality  of  data  available  to  competent  authorities  and 
ESMA  in  accordance  with  Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of 
the  Council  of  15  May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending 
Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU2  and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 
so  that  the  classification  of  financial  instruments,  including  the  thresholds  for  the 
purposes  of  pre-trade  and  post-trade  transparency,  and,  where  necessary,  re-
calibrations of these thresholds, can be calculated on a more informed basis after the 
regime has been applied for a certain period of time. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 84. 
2OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

174 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(3)

 

This  Regulation  sets  out  the  provisions  specifying,  in  general  terms,  the  common 
elements  with  regard  to  the  content  and  format  of  data  to  be  submitted  by  trading 
venues,  approved  publication  arrangements  (APAs)  and  consolidated  tape  providers 
(CTPs)  for  the  purposes  of  transparency  and  other  calculations.  It  should  be  read  in 
conjunction with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No xx/xxxx [Transparency 
for  equity  and  equity-like  instruments],  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No 
xx/xxxx 
instruments],  Commission  Delegated 
Regulation (EU) No xx/xxxx [Liquid Market for equity and equity-like], Commission 
Delegated Regulation  (EU) No xx/xxx [Definition of SI] and Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) xx/xxxx [Trading obligation 32(6) TS] in which the methodology and 
data necessary to perform the relevant calculations are described and which specify the 
content  and  scope  of  the  data  necessary  to  perform  the  transparency  calculations.  
Therefore, the  content, format and quality of the data submitted should  be consistent 
with the applicable methodology prescribed when performing such calculations. 

for  non-equity 

[Transparency 

(4)

  With the exception of potential ad-hoc data requests and calculations to be performed 
for the purposes of the Volume cap mechanism, this Regulation should require trading 
venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  to  submit  reports  on  a  daily  basis.  Considering  the  broad 
scope of financial instruments covered and the large amount of data to be processed, 
this daily submission enables competent authorities to more accurately process files of 
manageable  sizes  and  ensures  an  efficient  and  timely  management  of  the  data 
submission,  data  quality  check  and  data  processing.  Collecting  data  on  a  daily  basis 
also  simplifies  the  data  provision  obligation  on  trading  venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  by 
alleviating them from the burden of calculating the number of trading days in the cases 
where that quantitative liquidity criterion is applicable, and of aggregating data for the 
same financial instrument across different time maturity buckets in the cases where the 
time  to  maturity  has  to  be  considered.  Centralising  that  calculation  also  ensures  a 
consistent use of the criteria across financial instruments and trading venues.  

(5)

 

Trading  venues  should  store  data  that  is  comprehensive  and  allows  competent 
authorities  and  ESMA  to  perform  accurate  calculations.  While  the  required 
information  is  usually  provided  in  the  post-trade  reports,  in  some  cases,  the 
information  necessary  for  the  calculations  goes  beyond  the  information  available  in 
those reports. This includes, for example, information on transactions executed on the 
basis of orders that benefitted from the large in scale waiver. This information should 
not  be  included  in  trade  reports  since  it  could  expose  such  transactions  to  adverse 
market  impact.  However,  since  that  information  might  be  necessary  for  competent 
authorities  to  perform  accurate  calculations,  it  should  be  stored  appropriately  by 
trading  venues  and  CTPs  and  communicated  to  competent  authorities  and  ESMA 
where  necessary.  Trading  venues  should  ensure  that  they  adequately  disseminate  the 
information to be provided to competent authorities and ESMA. Transactions executed 
on the basis of large in scale orders should be appropriately identified in their report to 
CTPs. 

EN 

175 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

Data  should  be  collected  from  a  variety  of  sources  since  a  single  source  may  not 
always  hold  a  complete  data  set  for  an  asset  class  or  even  a  particular  instrument. 
Therefore,  to  allow  competent  authorities  and  ESMA  to  obtain  and  consolidate  high 
quality data from various sources, trading venues, APAs and CTPs should use, where 
available,  pre-set  specifications  in  terms  of  content  and  format  in  order  to  make  the 
data  collection  easier  and  more  cost  efficient.  This  should  also  facilitate  the 
automation  to  the  extent  possible  of  any  future  re-classifications  of  financial 
instruments and any recalibrations of thresholds.  

Considering the sensitivity of the necessary calculations and the potential commercial 
consequences  for  trading  venues,  issuers  and  other  market  participants  of  publishing 
incorrect information which could lead, in the case of the volume cap mechanism, to 
the suspension of the use of the waivers for one particular venue or across the Union 
for one particular financial instrument, it is crucial to clarify the format of the data to 
be  submitted  to  competent  authorities  and  ESMA  in  order  to  set  up  efficient 
communication channels with trading venues and CTPs and ensure timely and correct 
publication of the required data. 

Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 requires ESMA to publish, for financial instruments to 
which  the  volume  cap  mechanism  applies,  measurements  of  the  total  volume  of 
trading  in  the  previous  12  months  and  of  the  percentages  of  trading  under  both  the 
negotiated  trade  and  reference  price  waivers  across  the  Union  and  on  each  trading 
venue in the previous 12 months. In case of financial instruments traded in more than 
one  currency,  it  is  hence  necessary  to  convert  the  volumes  executed  in  different 
currencies  into  one  common  currency  so  as  to  enable  the  computation  of  those 
volumes and make the required calculations. Therefore, this Regulation should set out 
the  methodology  and  exchange  rates  to  be  used  to  convert,  where  necessary,  trading 
volumes.  

For the purpose of the volume cap mechanism, this Regulation requires trading venues 
to  report  the  volumes  of  trading  executed  under  the  reference  price  waiver  and,  for 
liquid instruments, the negotiated trade waiver. Given that the waivers apply to orders 
and not to transactions, it is important to clarify that the volumes to be reported should 
include all transactions flagged with  “RFPT” or “NLIQ” for the purpose of the post-
trade publication of transactions and as specified in Commission Delegated Regulation 
(EU)  No  xx/xxxx[Transparency  for  equity  and  equity-like  instruments].  Where  a 
transaction was executed on the basis of two orders benefitting from the large in scale 
waiver,  this  transaction  should  not  count  towards  the  volumes  calculated  under  the 
reference price waiver and the negotiated trade waiver. 

(10)

  For the purpose of the volume cap mechanism, trading venues and CTPs should ensure 
that  the  trading  venue  on  which  the  transaction  was  executed  is  identified  with 
sufficient  granularity  to  allow  ESMA  to  perform  all  calculations  set  out  under 
Regulation  (EU) No 600/2014.  In particular, the  trading venue identifier used should 
be unique for that trading venue and not shared with any other trading venue operated 

EN 

176 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(11)

by  the  same  market  operator.  Trading  venue  identifiers  should  allow  ESMA  to 
distinguish in an unequivocal manner all trading venues for which the market operator 
has received a specific authorisation under Directive 2014/65/EU.  

  Under Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, the period for which trading under the reference 
price  waiver  and,  for  liquid  financial  instruments,  negotiated  transaction  waiver  is  to 
be monitored starts on 3 January 2016. To this end, it is necessary to establish in this 
Regulation  a provision requiring trading venues  to  submit a first  report on 3 January 
2017 with trading volumes for the year 2016. To ensure a proportionate application of 
this  requirement,  trading  venues  should,  for  that  purpose,  base  their  report  on  the 
adjusted  volumes  of  trading  executed  under  equivalent  waivers  existing  under 
Directive  2004/39/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 3  and 
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1287/20064. 

(12)

 

In  order  to  provide  competent  authorities  and  ESMA  with  accurate  data,  trading 
venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  should  ensure  that  their  reports  include  single-counted 
transactions only. 

(13)

  The  provisions  in  this  Regulation  are  closely  linked,  since  they  deal  with  specifying 
the content, frequency, format of data requests, the method to be used to process  this 
data and other specifications relating to the publication of information for the purposes 
of transparency as defined under Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. To ensure coherence 
between those provisions, which will enter into force at the same time, and to facilitate 
a  comprehensive  view  for  stakeholders,  and  in  particular  those  subject  to  the 
obligations,  it  is  desirable  to  include  these  regulatory  technical  standards  in  a  single 
Regulation. 

(14)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date.  

(15)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

ESMA to the Commission. 

(16)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 

                                                 

3 Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial 
instruments amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC and 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC of the European 
Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 93/22/EEC, OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1.  
4 Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  1287/2006  of  10  August  2006  implementing  Directive  2004/39/EC  of  the 
European Parliament and of the Council as regards record-keeping obligations for investment firms, transaction 
reporting, market transparency, admission of financial instruments to trading, and defined terms for the purposes 
of that Directive (OJ L 241, 2.9.2006, p. 1). 

EN 

177 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council5, 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Subject matter and scope 

1.  This Regulation sets out, interalia, the details of the data requests to be sent by competent 
authorities and of the reply to those requests to be sent by trading venues, APAs and CTPs for 
the purposes of calculating and adjusting the pre-trade and post-trade transparency and trading 
obligation regimes and in particular the following factors:  

(a)  whether equity, equity-like and non-equity financial instruments have a liquid market; 

(b)  the thresholds for pre-trade transparency waivers for equity, equity-like and non-equity 

financial instruments; 

(c)  the  thresholds  for  post-trade  transparency  deferrals  for  equity,  equity-like  and  non-

equity financial instruments; 

(d)  when the liquidity of a class of financial instruments falls below a specified threshold; 

(e)  whether an investment firm is a systematic internaliser; 

(f)  the  standard  market  size  applicable  to  systematic  internalisers  dealing  in  equity  and 
equity-like instruments, and the size specific to the instrument applicable to systematic 
internalisers dealing in non-equity instruments;  

(g)  for  equity  and  equity-like  instruments,  the  total  volume  of  trading  for  the  previous  12 
months and of the percentages of trading carried out under both the negotiated trade and 
reference price waivers across the Union and on each trading venue in the previous 12 
months;  

(h)  whether derivatives are sufficiently liquid for the purposes of implementing the trading 

obligation for derivatives. 

                                                 

5    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

178 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Content of the data requests and information to be reported 

Article 2 

1.  For the purpose of carrying out calculations that occur at pre-set dates or in pre-defined 
frequencies, trading venues, APAs and CTPs shall provide their competent authorities with all 
the data required to perform the calculations set out in the following Regulations:  

(a)  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No  xx/xxxx  [Transparency  for  equity  and 

equity-like instruments];  

(b)  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No  xx/xxxx  [Transparency  for  non-equity 

instruments]; 

(c)  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No  xx/xxxx  [Liquid  Market  for  equity  and 

equity-like]; and  

(d)  Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No xx/xxx [Definition of SI]. 

2.  Competent  authorities  shall  be  able  to  request  from  trading  venues,  APAs  and  CTPs, 
where necessary, additional  information  needed  for the purpose of monitoring and  adjusting 
the thresholds and parameters referred to in points (a) to (f) and (h) of Article 1. Competent 
authorities shall, in  particular, be  able to  request  for non-equity financial  instruments  all the 
data ESMA is required to take into consideration in accordance with Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) xx/xxxx [Trading obligation 32(6) TS]  including data on the following:  

(a)  the average frequency of trades; 

(b)  the average size and distribution of trades; 

(c)  the number and type of market participants;  

(d)  the average size of spreads. 

 

Article 3  

Frequency of data requests and response times for trading venues, APAs and CTPs  

1.  Trading  venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  shall  submit  the  data  referred  to  in  Article  2(1)  each 
day. 

2.  Trading venues, APAs and CTPs shall submit the data  in response to an ad hoc request 
as  referred  to  in  Article  2(2)  within  four  weeks  of  receipt  of  that  request  unless  exceptional 
circumstances require a response within a shorter time period specified in the request.  

EN 

179 

EN 

 
 

 

 

3.  By way of derogation to paragraphs 1 and 2, trading venues and CTPs shall submit data 
to  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  the  volume  cap  mechanism  as  set  out  in  paragraphs  6  to  9  of 
Article 6. 

 

Article 4 

Format of the data requests  

Trading venues, APAs and CTPs shall submit the data referred to in Article 2 in  a common 
XML  format  and,  where  available,  in  compliance  with  any  other  specifications  in  terms  of 
content and format defined to facilitate an efficient and automated process of data delivery as 
well as its consolidation with similar data from other sources.  

 

Article 5 

Type of data that must be stored and the minimum period of time trading venues, APAs 

and CTPs shall store data 

1.  Trading  venues,  APAs  and  CTPs  shall  store  all  data  required  to  calculate,  monitor  or 
adjust the thresholds and parameters set  out  in  Article 2 regardless  whether this information 
has been made public or not. 

2.  Trading venues, APAs and CTPs shall store the data referred to in paragraph 1 for at least 
three years.  

 

Article 6 

Reporting requirements for trading venues and CTPs for the purpose of the volume cap 

mechanism  

1.  For  each  financial  instrument  subject  to  the  transparency  requirements  in  Article  3  of 
Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014,  trading  venues  shall  submit  to  the  competent  authority  the 
following data: 

(a)  the total volume of trading in the financial instrument executed on that trading venue;  

(b)  the total volumes of trading in the financial instrument executed on that trading venue 
falling under the waivers of Article 4(1)(a) or Article 4(1)(b)(i) of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014 respectively with total volumes reported separately for each waiver.   

2.  For  each  financial  instrument  subject  to  the  transparency  requirements  in  Article  3  of 
Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  and  where  requested  by  the  competent  authority,  CTPs  shall 
submit to the competent authority the following data: 

EN 

180 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  the total volumes of trading in the financial instrument executed on all trading venues in  

the Union with total volumes reported separately for each trading venue; 

(b)  the  total  volumes  of  trading  executed  on  all  trading  venues  in  the  Union falling  under 
the waivers of Article 4(1)(a) or 4(1)(b)(i) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 respectively 
with total volumes reported separately for each waiver and for each trading venue.   

3.  Trading  venues  and  CTPs  shall  report  the  data  set  out  in  paragraphs  1  and  2  using  the 
formats  provided  in  the  Annex.  They  shall,  in  particular,  ensure  that  the  trading  venue 
identifiers they provide are sufficiently granular to enable the competent authority and ESMA 
to  identify  the  volumes  of  trading  executed  under  the  reference  price  waiver  and,  for  liquid 
financial instruments, under the negotiated trade waiver of each trading venue and allow for 
the calculation of the ratio set out under Article 5(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. 

4.  For the purposes of the calculation of the volumes referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2: 

(a)  the volume of an individual transaction shall be determined by multiplying the price of 

the financial instrument by the number of units traded;  

(b)  the total  volume of trading  in  each  financial instrument  set  out  in  paragraphs 1(a) and 
2(a) shall be determined by aggregating the volume of all individual and single-counted 
transactions for that financial instrument.  

(c)  the  trading  volumes  set  out  in  paragraphs  1(b)  and  2(b)  shall  be  determined  by 
aggregating the volumes of individual and single-counted transactions for that financial 
instrument  reported  under  the  flags  “reference  price”  and  “negotiated  transactions  in 
liquid  financial  instruments”  in  accordance  with  Table  4  of  Annex  I  of  Commission 
Delegated Regulation (EU) No xx/xxxx [Equity transparency]. 

5.  Trading  venues  and  CTPs  shall  only  aggregate  transactions  executed  in  the  same 
currency  and  shall  report  separately  each  aggregated  volume  in  the  currency  used  for  the 
transactions. 

6.  Trading venues shall submit the data referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 on the first and the 
sixteenth day of each calender month byt 13:00 CET to the competent authority. If the first or 
the  sixteenth  day  of  the  calendar  month  is  a  non-working  day  for  the  trading  venue,  the 
trading venue shall report the data to the competent authority by 13:00 CET on the following 
working day.  

7.  Trading venues shall submit the total volume determined in accordance with paragraphs 1 
to 5 and executed in respect of the following time periods: 

(a)  for  the  reports  to  be  submitted  on  the  sixteenth  day  of  each  calendar  month,  the 

execution period is from the first day to the fifteenth day of the same calendar month; 

EN 

181 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  for  the  reports  to  be  submitted  on  the  first  day  of  each  calendar  month,  the  execution 

period is from the sixteenth day to the last day of the previous calendar month. 

8.  By way of derogation to paragraphs 6 and 7, trading venues shall submit the first  report 
per  financial  instrument  on  3  January  2017  by  13:00  CET  and  shall  include  the  trading 
volumes  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  from  3  January  2016  to  31  December  2016.  For  this 
purpose, trading venues shall report separately, for each calendar month: 

(a)  the  trading  volumes  during  the  period  from  the  first  day  to  the  fifteenth  day  of  each 

calendar month;   

(b)  the  trading  volumes  during  the  period  from  the  sixteenth  day  to  the  last  day  of  each 

calendar month.  

9.  Trading venues and CTPs shall respond to any ad hoc request from competent authorities 
on the volume of trading in relation to the calculation to be performed for monitoring the use 
of  the  reference  price  or  negotiated  trade  waivers  by  close  of  business  on  the  next  working 
day following the request.  

 

Article 7 

Reporting requirements for competent authorities to ESMA for the purposes of the 

volume cap mechanism and the trading obligation for derivatives 

1.  Competent  authorities shall provide ESMA with the data received from  a trading venue 
or a CTP in accordance  with Article 6 by 13:00  CET on the next working day following its 
receipt. 

2.  Competent authorities shall provide ESMA with the data received from a trading venue, 
APA  or  CTP  for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  derivatives  are  sufficiently  liquid  as 
referred to in Article 1(h) without undue delay and no later than three working days following 
its receipt.  

 

Article 8 

Reporting requirements for ESMA for the purpose of the volume cap mechanism  

1.  ESMA’s publication, in accordance with Article 5(4), (5) and (6) of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014, of measurements of the total volume of trading for each financial instrument in the 
previous  12  months  and  of  the  percentages  of  trading  under  both  the  negotiated  trade  and 
reference  price  waivers  across  the  Union  and  on  each  trading  venue  in  the  previous  12 
months, shall be made no later than 22.00 CET on the fifth working day following the end of 
the reporting periods set out in Article 6(6).  

EN 

182 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  The  publication  referred  to  under  paragraph  1  shall  be  made  by  ESMA,  free  of  charge 
and in a machine-readable and human-readable format as defined in Article 17(6) and (7) of 
[European  Comission  Delegated  Regulation  on  definitions,  transparency,  derivatives  and 
supervisory measures on product intervention and positions (MiFIR)].  

3.  Where  a  financial  instrument  is  traded  in  more  than  one  currency  across  the  Union, 
ESMA  shall  convert  all  volumes  into  EUR  using  average  exchange  rates  calculated  on  the 
basis  of  the  daily  euro  foreign  exchange  reference  rates  published  by  the  European  Central 
Bank on its website in the previous 12 months. Those converted volumes shall be used for the 
calculation  and  publication  of  the  total  volume  of  trading  and  of  the  percentages  of  trading 
under  both  the  negotiated  trade  and  reference  price  waivers  across  the  Union  and  on  each 
trading venue as referred to in paragraph 1. 

 

Article 9 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

183 

EN 

 
 

characters 

Decimal number 
of up to n digits in 
total of which up 
to m digits can be 
fraction digits 

{CURRENCYCO
DE_3} 

3 alphanumerical 
characters 

Numerical field for both positive and negative values.  
- decimal separator is '.' (full stop);  
- the number may be prefixed with '-' (minus) to indicate negative 
numbers.  

Where applicable, values shall be rounded and not truncated. 

3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency codes 

{DATEFORMAT} 

ISO 8601 date 
format 

Dates should be formatted by the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DD.  

{ISIN} 

{MIC} 

 

 

12 alphanumerical 
characters 

4 alphanumerical 
characters 

ISIN code, as defined in ISO 6166 

Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383 

 

EN 

184 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Formats of the report for the purpose of the  volume cap mechanism 

Table 2 

Data field name 

Format 

{DATEFORMAT}/{DATEFORMAT} 
 
where the first date is the beginning of 
the reporting period and the second date 
is the end of the reporting period. 

Where the reporting entity is a trading 
venue: {MIC}  
(segment MIC or, where appropriate, 
operational MIC)  
 
or  
{ALPHANUM-50}  
if the reporting entity is a CTP. 

{MIC}  
 (segment MIC, where available, 
otherwise operational MIC). 
{ISIN} 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

{DECIMAL-18/5} 
 

{DECIMAL-18/5} 
 

{DECIMAL-18/5} 
 

 

Reporting period 

Reporting entity 
identification 

Trading venue identifier 

Instrument identifier 
Currency of the 
transactions 
Total volume of trading 
(per currency) 
Total volume of trading 
under Reference Price 
waiver as defined under 
Article 4(1)(a) of MiFIR 
(per currency) 
Total volume of trading 
under Negotiated 
Transactions waiver as 
defined under Article 
4(1)(b)(i) of MiFIR (per 
currency) 

 

EN 

185 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  criteria  for 
 
 

 

Annex  

 

Table 1 

Symbol table for Table 2 

SYMBOL 

DATA TYPE 

DEFINITION 

{ALPHANUM-n}   Up to n 

Free text field. 

{DECIMAL-n/m} 

alphanumerical 
 


RTS 4:
determining whether derivatives should be subject  to the  trading 
obligation (Article 32(6) of MiFIR) 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

186 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 

and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on criteria 

for determining whether derivatives subject to the clearing obligation 

should be subject to the trading obligation 

 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 
No 648/20121, and in particular Article 32(6) thereof, 

 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

This Regulation contributes to the specification of the criteria for the determination of 
sufficient third-party buying and selling interest in a class of derivatives or a relevant 
subset  of  a  class  of  derivatives.  Where  European  Securities  and  Markets  Authority 
(ESMA)  has  established  that  a  class  of  derivatives  should  be  subject  to  the  clearing 
obligation under Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council2 and  that  they  are  admitted  to  trading  or  traded  on  a  trading  venue,  ESMA 
should  follow  the  criteria  in  this  Regulation  to  determine  whether  the  derivatives  or 
subset thereof is considered sufficiently liquid to trade exclusively on trading venues. 

Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 sets out that derivatives are considered to  be executed 
on an OTC basis when they are not traded on, or not subject to the rules of, a regulated 
market  whereas  the  definition  of  derivatives  executed  on  an  over-the-counter  (OTC) 
under  Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 3  is 
narrower,  comprising  derivatives  not  traded  on,  or  not  subject  to  the  rules  of,  a 
regulated  market,  multilateral  trading  facility  (MTF)  or  organised  trading  facility 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84. 
2  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  July  2012  on  OTC 
derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p.1) 
3 Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial 
instruments and amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU , OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

187 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(3)

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(OTF). ESMA should therefore assess the extent to which trades are executed already 
on trading venues in a class of derivatives or a relevant subset thereof and compare to 
the level of trading not executed on a trading venue. The prevalence of trading outside 
a trading venue should not, however, automatically establish that a class of derivatives 
or  a  relevant  subset  thereof  is  not  suitable  for  the  trading  obligation.  ESMA  should 
have  regard  also  to  the  anticipated  impact  of  the  trading  obligation  considering  both 
the  possibility 
increased 
transparency  and  availability  of  the  financial  instruments,  as  well  as  the  potential 
negative consequences of such decision.  

liquidity  and  market 

to  promote 

integrity 

through 

Given  the  similarity  of  the  definition  of  liquid  market  for  non-equities  under  Article 
2(17)(a)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  to  the  criteria  for  determining  whether  a 
class of derivatives or subset thereof is  sufficiently liquid  under Article  32(3) of that 
Regulation, the assessment undertaken for one should be taken into consideration for 
the  other  to  promote  consistency  of  treatment  of  instruments.  However,  a  class  of 
derivatives or subset thereof deemed to have a liquid market for transparency purposes 
should not be deemed automatically to be sufficiently liquid for the trading obligation. 
The quantitative thresholds and qualitative weightings may differ, taking into account 
the different objectives of the assessments. 

Given the wide range of instruments potentially affected by the trading obligation for 
derivatives  and  their  specific  characteristics,  the  constant  evolution  of  financial 
markets and the variety of national markets involved it is not possible to determine for 
each and every derivative type an exhaustive list specifying the elements relevant to an 
assessment  of  third-party  buying  and  selling  interest  or  the  weighting  to  be  given  to 
any particular element.  

However,  a  degree  of  clarity  should  be  provided  for  the  determination  of  a  class  of 
derivatives or relevant subset thereof which is sufficiently liquid, in particular, through 
specifying  the  criteria  with  respect  to  average  frequency  of  trades,  average  size  of 
trades,  number  and  type  of  active  market  participants  and  average  size  of  spreads 
which together indicate the level of third-party buying and selling interest.  

The  observation  period  for  determining  whether  a  class  of  derivatives  or  relevant 
subset thereof is sufficiently liquid to trade exclusively on trading venues should vary 
depending on the class of derivatives or relevant subset thereof concerned. It should be 
sufficiently long to ensure that the data collected is not skewed by any type of events 
that  may  cause  unusual  trading  patterns.  In  any  circumstance  the  observation  period 
should not be shorter than three months.   

The criteria described in this Regulation should be designed so that the assessment of 
one  derivative  or  classes  of  derivatives  may  be  compared  with  other  derivatives  or 
classes  of  derivatives  with  similar  characteristics.  The  identification  of  classes  of 
derivatives with similar characteristics may include a number of elements such as the 
currency  in  which  they  are  traded,  maturity  dates,  the  starting  term  of  the  contracts 

EN 

188 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

(10)

tenor, whether they follow a standard convention or not, and whether they are on-the-
run contracts.  

ESMA  should  refer  to  historical  data  indicating  shifts  in  liquidity  to  determine  both 
whether the class of derivatives or subset thereof is sufficiently liquid to trade only on 
venues  and  whether  it  is  only  sufficiently  liquid  in  transactions  below  a  certain  size. 
The  thresholds  for  these  assessments  may  vary  between  classes  of  derivatives  or 
subsets thereof where the characteristics and the notional size of the classes or subsets 
vary. In its assessment of spreads, ESMA should have regard to both the average size 
and  the  availability  of  spreads,  balancing  the  consideration  that  a  lack  of,  or  wide, 
spreads indicates insufficient liquidity against the possibility that spreads may become 
narrower through increased transparency  and  availability of the financial instruments 
if the trading obligation is introduced. 

In its assessment, ESMA should remove  from  its  calculations those trades which  are 
clearly  identifiable  as  post-trade  risk  reduction  trades  which  reduce  non-market  risks 
in derivatives portfolios. To include such transactions in the assessment for the trading 
obligation may otherwise result in  an inflated view of the level  of third level  buying 
and selling interest. 

  ESMA  should  also  take  into  consideration  the  need  or  otherwise  to  permit  package 
transactions  during  its  assessment.  Investment  firms  often  conduct,  on  their  own 
account  or  on  behalf  of  clients,  transactions  in  derivatives  and  other  financial 
instruments that comprise a number of interlinked trades which are contingent on one 
another.  Given  package  transactions  enable  investment  firms  and  their  clients  to 
manage their risks and improve the resiliency of financial markets, it may be desirable 
to continue to permit the execution of some package transactions which comprise one 
or  more  derivatives  subject  to  the  trading  obligation  to  be  executed,  on  a  bilateral 
basis, outside a trading venue. 

(11)

  Criteria  should  also  be  set  out  to  enable  ESMA  to  determine  whether  an  existing 
trading  obligation  for  a  class  of  derivatives  or  a  relevant  subset  thereof  should  be 
amended,  suspended  or  revoked,  unless    the  class  of  derivatives  or  a  relevant  subset 
thereof is no longer traded on at least one trading venue.  

(12)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date.  

(13)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

ESMA to the Commission. 

(14)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 

EN 

189 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council4, 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

(Article 32(2)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) 

Sufficient third party buying and selling interest 

1.  When establishing whether a class of derivatives or relevant subset thereof has sufficient 
third-party  buying  and  selling  interest  to  be  considered  sufficiently  liquid  for  the  trading 
obligation, ESMA shall apply the criteria in Article 32(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, as 
further specified in Articles 2 to 5 below. 

 

Article 2  

(Article 32(3)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) 

Average frequency of trades 

In  relation  to  the  average  frequency  of  trades,  ESMA  shall  take  into  consideration  the 

1. 
following elements: 

(a)  the number of days on which trading took place;  

(b)  the number of trades.  

2.  ESMA’s analysis of the criteria in paragraph 1 shall take into account the distribution of 
trading executed on trading venues and executed OTC. ESMA shall assess these criteria over 
a  period  of  time  of  sufficient  length  to  determine  whether  the  liquidity  of  each  class  of 
derivatives or a relevant subset thereof is subject to seasonal or structural factors. ESMA shall 
also consider whether trades are concentrated at certain points in time and over certain sizes 
over  the  period  assessed  and  determine  to  what  extent  such  concentration  constitutes 
predictable patterns.  

 
                                                 

4  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

190 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 3  

(Article 32(3)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) 

Average size of trades 

In relation to the average size of trades, ESMA shall take into consideration the following 

1. 
elements: 

(a)  the  average  daily  turnover  whereby  the  notional  size  of  all  trades  combined  shall  be 

divided by the number of trading days;  

(b)  the  average  value  of  trades  whereby  the  notional  size  of  all  trades  combined  shall  be 

divided by the number of trades. 

2.  ESMA’s  analysis  of  the  criteria  in  paragraph  1  shall  take  into  account  the  factors 
specified in Article 2(2). 

 

Article 4  

(Article 32(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) 

Number and type of active market participants 

In  relation  to  the  number  and  type  of  active  market  participants,  ESMA  shall  take  into 

1. 
consideration the following elements:  

(a)  the  total  number  of  market  participants  trading  in  that  class  of  derivatives  or  relevant 

subset thereof is not lower than two;  

(b)  the  number  of  trading  venues  that  have  admitted  to  trading  or  are  trading  the  class  of 

derivatives or a relevant subset thereof;  

(c)  the  number  of  market  makers  and  other  market  participants  under  a  binding  written 

agreement or an obligation to provide liquidity. 

2.  ESMA’s analysis shall compare the ratio of market participants to the findings in the data 
obtained for the analyses of average size of trades and the average frequency of trades.  

 

Article 5  

(Article 32(3)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014) 

Average size of spreads 

In  relation  to  the  average  size  of  spreads,  ESMA  shall  take  into  consideration  the 

1. 
following elements: 

EN 

191 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  the size of weighted spreads, including volume weighted spreads, over different periods 

of time;  

(b)  spreads at different points in time of trading sessions. 

2.  Where  information  on  spreads  is  not  available,  ESMA  shall  take  into  consideration  a 
proxy for the assessment of this criterion. 

 

Article 6   

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

192 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  criteria  for 
 
