
RTS 5:
determining  whether  derivatives  have  a  direct,  substantial  and 
foreseeable effect within the EU (Article 28(5) of MiFIR) 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

193 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the 

direct, substantial and foreseeable effect of contracts within the Union and 

to prevent the evasion of rules and obligations 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having  regard  to  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments, and in particular Article 28(5) 
thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  sets  out  a  formal  regulatory  procedure  for  mandating 
trading in derivatives that have been considered to be clearing-eligible and which are 
sufficiently liquid to take place on a range of trading venues.  

To  ensure  that  goal  is  effectively  achieved,  Article  28(2)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  prescribes  that  the  trading  obligation  shall  also  apply  to  third-country 
entities that would be subject to the clearing obligation if they were established in the 
Union,  which  enter  into  derivatives  transactions  pertaining  to  a  class  of  derivatives 
that has been declared subject to the trading obligation, provided that the contract has a 
direct, substantial and foreseeable effect within the Union or where such obligation is 
necessary or appropriate to prevent the evasion of such Regulation. 

Given  the  broad  variety  of  over-the-counter  (OTC)  derivative  contracts,  in  order  to 
determine  when  an  OTC  derivative  contract  may  be  considered  to  have  a  direct, 
substantial and foreseeable effect within the Union and cases where it is necessary or 
appropriate to prevent the evasion of rules and obligations arising from any provision 
of  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  the  Council 1  a 
criteria-based approach should be adopted. 

                                                 

1  Regulation  (EU)  No  648/2012  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  July  2012  on  OTC 
derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p. 1) 

EN 

194 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

Given that pursuant to Article 33(3) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, the provisions 
of that Regulation would be deemed fulfilled when at least one of the counterparties is 
established in  a country  for which the Commission  has adopted an implementing act 
declaring  equivalence  in  accordance  with  Article  33(2)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014,  these  regulatory  technical  standards  should  apply  to  contracts  where  both 
counterparties  are  established  in  a  third  country  whose  legal,  supervisory  and 
enforcement arrangements  have not  yet  been declared equivalent to  the  requirements 
laid down in that Regulation. 

Certain  information  on  contracts  concluded  by  third  country  entities  would  still  only 
be  available  to  third  country  competent  authorities.  Therefore  Union  competent 
authorities should closely  cooperate with  those  authorities in  order to  ensure that the 
relevant provisions are applied and enforced. 

Given  the  intrinsic  relationship  between  these  technical  standards  and  Commission 
Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  No  285/2014,  of  13  February  2014,  supplementing 
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 with regard to regulatory technical standards on direct, 
substantial  and  foreseeable  effect  of  contracts  within  the  Union  and  to  prevent  the 
evasion  of  rules  and  obligations,  the  technical  terms  necessary  for  a  comprehensive 
understanding of the technical standards should be defined in the same way. 

OTC derivative contracts concluded by entities established in third countries covered 
by a guarantee provided by entities established in the Union create a financial risk for 
the guarantor established in the Union. Furthermore, given that the risk would depend 
on the size of the guarantee granted by financial counterparties in order to cover OTC 
derivative  contracts  and  given  the  interconnections  between  financial  counterparties 
compared to non-financial counterparties, only OTC derivative contracts concluded by 
entities  established  in  third  countries  that  are  covered  by  a  guarantee  which  exceeds 
certain  quantitative thresholds and is  provided by financial counterparties established 
in the Union should be considered as having a direct, substantial and foreseeable effect 
in the Union. 

Financial  counterparties  established  in  third  countries  can  enter  into  OTC  derivative 
contracts  through  their  Union  branches.  Given  the  impact  of  the  activity  of  those 
branches  on  the  Union  market,  OTC  derivative  contracts  concluded  between  those 
Union  branches  should  be  considered  to  have  a  direct,  substantial  and  foreseeable 
effect within the Union. 

OTC  derivative  contracts  that  are  entered  into  by  specific  counterparties  with  the 
primary  purpose  of  avoiding  the  application  of  the  clearing  obligation  or  of  the  risk 
mitigation  techniques  applicable  to  entities  that  would  have  been  the  natural 
counterparties  to  the  contract,  should  be  considered  as  evading  the  rules  and 
obligations laid down in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 as they hinder the achievement 
of a purpose of that Regulation, namely mitigating counterparty credit risk. 

EN 

195 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(10)

(11)

  OTC derivative contracts that are part of an arrangement whose characteristics are not 
supported by a business  rationale or commercial substance and have  as their primary 
purpose  the  circumvention  of  the  application  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014, 
including  rules  relating  to  the  conditions  of  an  exemption,  should  be  considered  as 
evading the rules and obligations laid down in that Regulation. 

  Situations  where  the  individual  components  of  the  arrangement  are  inconsistent  with 
the  legal  substance  of  the  arrangement  as  a  whole,  where  the  arrangement  is  carried 
out  in  a  manner  which  would  not  ordinarily  be  used  in  what  is  expected  to  be 
reasonable  business  conduct,  where  the  arrangement  or  series  of  arrangements 
includes  elements  that  have  the  effect  of  offsetting  or  nullifying  their  reciprocal 
economic substance, where transactions are circular in nature, should be considered as 
indicators of an artificial arrangement or an artificial series of arrangements. 

(12)

 

It  is  desirable  to  provide  technical  standards  related  to  contracts  that  have  a  direct, 
substantial  and  foreseeable  effect  within  the  Union  as  well  as  technical  standards 
related to the prevention of evasion of rules and obligations provided for in Regulation 
(EU)  No  600/2014  in  a  single  instrument  since  both  relate  to  the  trading  obligation. 
Furthermore, they share common features such as their application to a contract whose 
counterparties  would  not  be  subject  to  the  trading  obligation  if  the  conditions  of 
Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 specified further by this Regulation were 
not met. 

(13)

  Given  that  third  country  entities  affected  by  these  regulatory  technical  standards 
require  time  in  order  to  arrange  for  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  Regulation 
(EU) No 600/2014 when their OTC derivative contracts fulfil the conditions set out in 
these regulatory technical standards for being considered to have a direct,  substantial 
and foreseeable effect within the Union, it is appropriate to delay the application of the 
provision containing those conditions by six months. 

(14)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date.  

(15)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(16)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 

EN 

196 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2. 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

Definitions 

For the purposes of this Regulation the following definition shall apply: 

‘guarantee’  means  an  explicitly  documented  legal  obligation  by  a  guarantor  to  cover 
payments of the amounts due or that may become due pursuant to the OTC derivative 
contracts covered by that guarantee and entered into by the guaranteed entity in favour 
of  the  beneficiary  where  there  is  a  default  as  defined  in  the  guarantee  or  where  no 
payment has been effected by the guaranteed entity. 

 

Article 2 

Contracts with a direct, substantial and foreseeable effect within the Union 

1.  An  OTC  derivative  contract  shall  be  considered  as  having  a  direct,  substantial  and 
foreseeable  effect  within  the  Union  when  at  least  one  third  country  entity  benefits  from  a 
guarantee  provided  by  a  financial  counterparty  established  in  the  Union  which  covers  all  or 
part of its liability resulting from that OTC derivative contract, to the extent that the guarantee 
meets both following conditions:  

(a)  it  covers  the  entire  liability  of  a  third  country  entity  resulting  from  one  or  more  OTC 
derivative contracts for an aggregated notional amount of at least  EUR 8 billion or the 
equivalent  amount  in  the  relevant  foreign  currency,  or  it  covers  only  a  part  of  the 
liability of a third country  entity resulting  from  one or more OTC derivative contracts 
for an aggregated notional amount of at least EUR 8 billion or the equivalent amount in 
the relevant foreign currency divided by the percentage of the liability covered; 

(b)  it is at least equal to 5 per cent of the sum of current exposures, as defined in Article 272 
(17)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  575/20133,  in  OTC  derivative  contracts  of  the  financial 
counterparty established in the Union issuing the guarantee.  

                                                 

2    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

197 

EN 

 
 

 

 

When the guarantee is issued for a maximum amount which is below the threshold set out in 
point  (a)  of  the  first  sub-paragraph,  the  contracts  covered  by  that  guarantee  shall  not  be 
considered  to  have  a  direct,  substantial  and  foreseeable  effect  within  the  Union  unless  the 
amount  of  the  guarantee  is  increased,  in  which  case  the  direct,  substantial  and  foreseeable 
effect  of  the  contracts  within  the  Union  shall  be  re-assessed  by  the  guarantor  against  the 
conditions set out in points (a) and (b) of the first sub-paragraph on the day of the increase.  

Where  the  liability  resulting  from  one  or  more  OTC  derivative  contracts  is  below  the 
threshold set out in point (a) of the first sub-paragraph, such contracts shall not be considered 
to have a direct, substantial and foreseeable effect within the Union even where the maximum 
amount of the  guarantee covering such liability is equal  to  or above the threshold set  out  in 
point  (a)  of  the  first  sub-paragraph  and  even  where  the  condition  set  out  in  point  (b)  of  the 
first sub-paragraph has been met.  

In the event of an increase in the liability resulting from the OTC derivative contracts or of a 
decrease of the current exposure, the guarantor shall re-assess whether the conditions set out 
in  points  (a)  and  (b)  of  the  first  sub-paragraph  are  met.  Such  assessment  shall  be  done 
respectively on the day of the increase of liability for the condition set out in point (a) of the 
first  sub-paragraph,  and  on a monthly basis for the condition  set  out  in  point (b) of the first 
sub-paragraph.  

OTC  derivative  contracts  for  an  aggregate  notional  amount  of  at  least  EUR  8  billion  or  the 
equivalent amount in the relevant foreign currency concluded before a guarantee is issued or 
increased, and subsequently covered by a guarantee that meets the conditions set out in points 
(a) and (b) of the first  sub-paragraph, shall be considered as having a direct,  substantial  and 
foreseeable effect within the Union.  

2.  An  OTC  derivative  contract  shall  be  considered  as  having  a  direct,  substantial  and 
foreseeable effect within the Union where the two entities established in a third country enter 
into  the  OTC  derivative  contract  through  their  branches  in  the  Union  and  would  qualify  as 
financial counterparties if they were established in the Union. 

 

Article 3  

Cases where it is necessary or appropriate to prevent the evasion of rules or obligations 

provided for in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 

1.  An  OTC  derivative  contract  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  designed  to  circumvent  the 
application  of  any  provision  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  if  the  way  in  which  that 

                                                                                                                                                         

3 Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential 
requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No  
648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). 
 

EN 

198 

EN 

 
 

 

 

contract has been concluded is considered, when viewed as a whole and having regard to all 
the  circumstances,  to  have  as  its  primary  purpose  the  avoidance  of  the  application  of  any 
provision of that Regulation.  

2.  For  the  purposes  of  paragraph  1,  a  contract  shall  be  considered  as  having  for  primary 
purpose the avoidance of the application of any provision of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 if 
the  primary  purpose  of  an  arrangement  or  series  of  arrangements  related  to  the  OTC 
derivative  contract  is  to  defeat  the  object,  spirit  and  purpose  of  any  provision  of  Regulation 
(EU)  No  600/2014  that  would  otherwise  apply  including  when  it  is  part  of  an  artificial 
arrangement or artificial series of arrangements.  

3.  An  arrangement  that  intrinsically  lacks  business  rationale,  commercial  substance  or 
relevant  economic  justification  and  consists  of  any  contract,  transaction,  scheme,  action, 
operation, agreement, grant, understanding, promise, undertaking or event shall be considered 
an artificial arrangement. The arrangement may comprise more than one step or part. 

 

Article 4  

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

199 

EN 

 
 

 

 

CHAPTER 3: MICROSTRUCTURAL ISSUES  

 Regulation  on 

technical 

the  regulatory 
