


RTS 6:
standards 
specifying  the  organisational  requirements  of  investment  firms 
engaged in algorithmic trading, providing direct electronic access 
and acting as general clearing members 

 

 

  

  

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

200 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the 

organisational requirements of investment firms engaged in algorithmic 
trading, providing direct electronic access and acting as general clearing 

members 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May 2014 on markets in financial instruments amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 
2011/61/EU1 , and in particular points (a) and (d) of Article 17(7) thereof. 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

It is important to adopt  detailed regulatory technical standards to  ensure that systems 
and risk controls used by investment  firms engaged in algorithmic trading, providing 
direct electronic access and acting as general clearing members are efficient, resilient 
and  have  an  adequate  capacity  in  a  manner  appropriate  to  the  nature,  scale  and 
complexity  of  their  business  model.  It  is  also  important  to  set  out  the  content  and 
format of the forms to be used by investment firms engaged in high frequency trading 
for submitting to competent authorities the records of their orders upon request and the 
length of time that these records must be kept.  

These regulatory technical standards should address all risks that may affect the core 
elements  of  a  trading  system,  including  the  hardware,  software  and  associated 
communication  lines  which  investment  firms  use  to  perform  their  trading  activities 
and  should  cover  any  type  of  execution  systems  or  order  management  systems 
operated by investment firms.  

To ensure proper calibration of the obligations provided in these regulatory technical 
standards,  it  is  necessary  to  differentiate  trading  algorithms  that  are  investment 
decision algorithms  from order execution algorithms.  Investment  decision algorithms 
make  automated  trading  decisions  by  determining  which  assets  to  purchase  or  sell. 

                                                 

1 

OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

201 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

(9)

 

Order  execution  algorithms  optimise  order-execution  processes  by  automatic 
generation and submission of orders or quotes, to one or several trading venues once 
the investment decision has been taken.  

The  potential  impact  that  algorithms  may  have  on  the  overall  fair  and  orderly 
functioning  of  the  market  should  constitute  a  guiding  principle  in  setting  out 
regulatory technical standards regarding the testing of algorithms. In this regard, only 
those  pure  investment  decision  algorithms  which  generate  orders  that  are  only  to  be 
executed  by  non-automated  means  and  with  human  intervention  should  be  excluded 
from the testing requirements.  

Reference  should  be  made  to  elements  which  are  instrumental  for  the  resilience  and 
capacity  of  investment  firms  engaged  in  algorithmic  trading  including  staffing  and 
outsourcing policies. 

Investment firms should be required to segregate tasks and functions at various levels 
so as to reduce their dependency on a single person or unit.  

Investment firms should operate a kill functionality enabling them to withdraw all or a 
subset  of  their  orders  where  this  becomes  necessary.  For  such  a  functionality  to  be 
effective, investment firms should always be in a position to know which algorithms, 
traders or clients are responsible for an order.  

These  regulatory  technical  standards  should  apply  jointly  with  other  regulatory 
requirements  stemming  from  Directives  2005/60/EC2,  2014/65/EU3and  2013/36/EU4 
of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council5. 

Investment  firms  providing  direct  electronic  access  (DEA)  services  should  always 
retain responsibility for the trading that their DEA clients carry out under their name. 
Responsibility  for  those  services  should  constitute  the  key  factor  governing  the 
framework  for  pre-trade  and  post-trade  controls  and  for  assessing  the  suitability  of 
prospective DEA clients. Investment firms should therefore have sufficient knowledge 
about  the  intentions,  capabilities,  financial  resources  and  trustworthiness  of  their 

                                                 

2 Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the prevention of 
the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing; OJL 309 25.11.2005 
 
3 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 
4 Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity 
of  credit  institutions  and  the  prudential  supervision  of  credit  institutions  and  investment  firms,  amending 
Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC; OJL 176 27.6.2013 
 
5 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012; OJL 173 12.6.2014 

EN 

202 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(10)

 

clients, including information about the prospective DEA clients’ disciplinary history 
with competent authorities and trading venues, where publicly available. 

Investment  firms  which  provide  DEA  services  (“DEA  provider”)  may  provide  those 
services to clients without being engaged in algorithmic trading themselves. However, 
since the clients may use the DEA to engage in algorithmic trading, it is necessary to 
ensure  that  the  DEA  providers  have  the  proper  systems  and  controls  in  place  and  be 
subject  to  the  organisational  requirements  provided  in  these  regulatory  technical 
standards.  

(11)

  The  specific  organisational  requirements  for  investment  firms  must  be  determined 
according to a robust self-assessment where, at a minimum, the parameters set out in 
this  Regulation  must  be  assessed.  That  self-assessment  should  include  any  other 
circumstances not included in that list that might have an impact on their organisation, 
thus constituting one of the cornerstones of the supervision of investment firms carried 
out by the competent authorities. 

(12)

  Self-assessments should be undertaken periodically by investment firms to gain a full 
understanding of the trading systems and algorithms they use and the risks stemming 
from  algorithmic  trading.  An  investment  firm’s  understanding  should  be  irrespective 
of whether the systems  and algorithms were developed by the investment  firm  itself, 
purchased from a third party, designed or developed in close cooperation with a client 
or a third party. 

(13)

 

Investment  firms  engaged  in  algorithmic  trading  should  monitor  that  their  trading 
systems cannot be used for any purpose that is contrary to Regulation (EU) 596/2014 
of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council6 or  to  the  rules  of  a  trading  venue  to 
which they are connected. Where monitoring leads to the  identification of suspicious 
transactions  or  orders,  the  submission  of  the  reports  to  the  competent  authorities 
should take place in accordance with the requirements and the format set out in Article 
16 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014.  

(14)

  Conformance testing should be relied upon to establish that the trading systems of an 
investment  firm  communicate  and  interact  properly  with  the  trading  systems  of  the 
trading  venue  or  direct  market  access  (DMA)  provider  and  that  market  data  is  being 
processed correctly.  

(15)

  Controlled  deployment  of  algorithms  should  be  observed  by  investment  firms  when 
introducing  all  algorithms  regardless  of  whether  they  are  new  or  previously 
successfully  deployed  in  another  trading  venue  or  that  their  architecture  has  been 

                                                 

6 Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse 
(market abuse regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and 
Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC;  

EN 

203 

EN 

 
 

 

 

materially  modified.  The  controlled  deployment  of  algorithms  should  ensure  that  the 
algorithms perform as expected in a live environment by setting cautious limits on the 
number of  financial instruments being  traded, the price, value  and number of orders, 
the  strategy  positions  and  the  number  of  markets  involved  and  by  monitoring  the 
activity of the algorithm more intensively. 

(16)

  The  generation  of  alerts  following  real  time  monitoring  should  be  done  as  close  to 
instantaneously as technically possible. Any actions following that monitoring should 
be  undertaken  as  soon  as  possible  assuming  a  reasonable  level  of  efficiency  and 
expenditure of the persons and systems concerned.  

(17)

  Due diligence of prospective DEA clients should be adapted to the risks posed by the 
nature, scale and complexity of their expected trading activities, and the service being 
provided. In particular, it should include an assessment of the expected level of trading 
and order volume and the type of connection offered to the relevant trading venues.  

(18)

  Different  types  of  risks  should  be  addressed  by  different  types  of  controls.  Pre-trade 
controls  should  be  conducted  before  an  order  is  submitted  to  a  trading  venue. 
Investment  firms  should  also  monitor  their  trading  activity  and  implement  real-time 
alerts  which  identify  signs  of  disorderly  trading  or  a  breach  of  their  pre-trade  limits. 
Post-trade  controls  should  be  put  in  place  to  at  least  monitor  the  market  and  credit 
risks  of  the  investment  firm  through  post-trade  reconciliation.  In  addition,  potential 
market  abuse  or  breach  with  rules  of  trading  venues  should  be  prevented  through 
specific  surveillance  systems  generating  alerts  on  the  following  day  at  the  latest, 
having been calibrated to minimise false positive and false negative alerts.  

(19)

  To  ensure  consistency  with  the  general  order  record-keeping  obligations  for 
investment firms under Article 25(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, the time limits 
of  the  order  record  keeping  obligation  for  investment  firm  engaging  in  a  high-
frequency algorithmic trading technique should be aligned with ones prescribed under 
Article 25(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.  

(20)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  as  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date. 

(21)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(22)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 

EN 

204 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council7, 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

CHAPTER I 

GENERAL ORGANISATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

Article 1  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Governance, general requirements and proportionality  

As  part  of  their  overall  governance  and  decision  making  framework,  investment  firms  shall 
develop  and monitor trading systems  and trading algorithms, taking into account  the nature, 
scale and complexity of their business and setting out:  

(a)  clear  lines  of  accountability,  including  procedures  and  processes  to  approve  the 
development,  deployment  and  subsequent  updates  of  trading  algorithms  and  for  the 
resolution of problems identified through monitoring;  

(b)  effective  procedures  and  processes  for  the  communication  of  information  within  the 
investment  firm,  such  that  relevant  issues  can  be  escalated  and  instructions  can  be 
implemented in an efficient and timely manner;  

(c)  segregation  of  functions  and  responsibilities  between  trading  desks  and  supporting 
functions  including  risk  control  and  compliance  functions  ensuring  that  unauthorised 
trading activity cannot be concealed. 

 

Article 2 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Role of compliance function  

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  ensure  that  their  compliance  staff  has  at  least  a  general 
understanding  of  the  way  in  which  the  algorithmic  trading  systems  and  algorithms  of  the 
investment firm operate. The compliance function shall be in continuous contact with persons 
with detailed technical knowledge of the firm’s algorithmic trading systems or algorithms.  

                                                 

7 Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

205 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2. 
Investment firms shall also enable their compliance function to, at all times, have access 
to the kill functionality as referred to under Article 12 or have direct contact with the persons 
who have access to it, and to those who are responsible for each trading system or algorithm. 

3.  Where  part  or  all  of  the  compliance  function  is  outsourced  to  an  external  compliance 
consultant,  investment  firms  shall  engage  with,  and  provide  information  and  access  to,  the 
external  compliance  consultant  as  it  would  with  its  own  compliance  staff.  Investment  firms 
shall ensure that: 

(a)  data privacy is guaranteed;  

(b)  auditing  of  the  compliance  function  by  internal  and  external  auditors  or  by  the  firms' 

competent authority is not constrained. 

 

Article 3 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Staffing 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  employ  an  adequate  number  of  staff  with  the  necessary  skills  to 
manage  their  algorithmic  trading  systems  and  trading  algorithms  and  sufficient  technical 
knowledge of: 

(a)  relevant trading systems and algorithms;  

(b)  the monitoring and testing of such systems and algorithms;  

(c)  the trading strategies that the firm deploys through its algorithmic trading systems and 

algorithms;  

(d)  the investment firm’s legal and regulatory obligations and in particular the requirements 
imposed by the relevant trading venues and all other requirements established by Article 
17 of Directive 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. 

2. 
Investment firms shall define the skills necessary to comply with the obligation set out in 
paragraph  1.  These  skills  shall  be  acquired  through  recruitment  or  through  training  of 
appropriate staff and shall be evaluated periodically to ensure that they remain up-to-date. 

3. 
Initial and ongoing training shall be tailored to the experience and responsibilities of the 
staff it is being delivered to, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of the staff 
activity.  In  particular,  staff  involved  in  order  submission  shall  receive  initial  and  ongoing 
training on order submission systems and market abuse. 

EN 

206 

EN 

 
 

 

 

4. 
Investment firms shall have procedures in place to ensure that the staff responsible for the 
risk  and  compliance  functions  for  algorithmic  trading  have  sufficient  knowledge  of 
algorithmic trading and strategies and sufficient skill and authority in order to: 

(a)  follow up information provided by automatic alerts; 

(b)  challenge staff responsible for algorithmic trading when the trading activity gives rise to 

disorderly trading conditions or suspicions of market abuse.  

 

Article 4 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

IT outsourcing and procurement 

1.  When outsourcing or procuring software or hardware which is used in algorithmic trading 
activities, investment firms shall remain fully responsible for fulfilling their obligations as set 
out in this Regulation. 

Investment  firms  shall  have  sufficient  knowledge  and  all  the  necessary  documentation 

2. 
regarding any procured or outsourced hardware or software used in algorithmic trading. 

 

CHAPTER II 

RESILIENCE OF TRADING SYSTEMS  

SECTION 1  

Testing and deployment of trading algorithms and systems 

Article 5  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

General methodology 

1.  Prior  to  the  initial  deployment  or  substantial  update  of  an  algorithmic  trading  system, 
trading  algorithm  or  algorithmic  trading  strategy,  investment  firms  shall  set  up  clearly 
delineated development and testing methodologies. 

2.  A responsible party designated by senior management of the investment firm shall sign-
off  the  initial  deployment  or  substantial  update  of  an  algorithmic  trading  system,  trading 
algorithm or algorithmic trading strategy. 

3.  The development and testing methodologies shall address the design and performance of 
the system, algorithm  or strategy, the division  of responsibilities, the allocation of sufficient 
resources, escalation procedures, recordkeeping and approval.  

EN 

207 

EN 

 
 

 

 

4.  The development and testing methodologies and scenarios shall ensure that: 

(a)  the  algorithmic  trading  system,  trading  algorithm  or  algorithmic  trading  strategy  does 

not behave in an unintended manner;  

(b)  the operation of the algorithmic trading system, trading algorithm or algorithmic trading 
strategy 
investment  firm’s  obligations  under  Directive 
2014/65/EU and in particular, that embedded compliance and risk management control 
functions as intended;  

is  compliant  with 

the 

(c)  the trading systems, trading algorithms or trading strategies conform with the rules and 

systems of the trading venues accessed;  

(d)  the  trading  system,  trading  algorithm  or  trading  strategy  does  not  contribute  to 
disorderly  trading  conditions,  and  can  continue  to  work  effectively  in  stressed  market 
conditions,  and  where  necessary  under  those  conditions,  allows  the  trading  system  or 
algorithm to be switched off. 

5. 
Investment  firms  shall  adapt  their  testing  methodologies  to  the  trading  venues  and 
markets  where  the  algorithms  will  be  deployed.  Investment  firms  shall  undertake  further 
testing  if  there  are  substantial  changes  to  the  trading  system  or  the  access  to  the  venue  in 
which the algorithmic trading system, trading algorithm  or algorithmic trading strategy is  to 
be used. 

6.  Paragraphs 2 to 5 shall only apply to algorithms leading to order execution with limited 
or no human intervention.  

Investment  firms  shall  keep  records  of  any  material  changes  made  to  the  software  used 

7. 
for algorithmic trading, allowing them to accurately determine: 

(a)  when a change was made; 

(b)  who made the change; 

(c)  who approved the change; 

(d)  the nature of the change. 

 

Article 6 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Conformance testing 

1. 

Investment firms shall test the conformance of their trading systems and algorithms with: 

(a) 

the trading venue in any of the following cases: 

EN 

208 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(i)  when accessing the venue as a member; 

(ii)  when  connecting  to  the  venue  through  a  sponsored  access  arrangement  for  the 

first time;  

(iii) when there is a material change of the systems of the trading venue; 

(iv) prior  to  the  initial  deployment  or  material  update  of  an  algorithmic  trading 

system, trading algorithm or algorithmic trading strategy. 

(b)  the DMA provider in any of the following cases:  

(i)  when  they  access  the  trading  venue  through  a  DMA  arrangement  for  the  first 

time; 

(ii)  when there is a material change affecting the DMAfunctionality of the provider;  

(iii) prior  to  the  initial  deployment  or  material  update  of  an  algorithmic  trading 

system, trading algorithm or algorithmic trading strategy. 

2.  Conformance testing shall ensure that the basic elements of the system or the algorithm 
operate  correctly  and  according  to  the  requirements  of  the  trading  venue  or  the  DMA 
provider, including the ability of the algorithm to interact as expected with the trading venue’s 
matching logic, and adequately process the data flows downloaded from the trading venue. 

 

Article 7 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Testing environments 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  ensure  that  testing  under  Article  5(4)(a),  (b)  and  (d)  shall  be 
undertaken in non-live environments, segregated from their production environments, that are 
used specifically for the testing and development of trading algorithms and trading systems. 

For  the  purposes  of  the  first  subparagraph,  the  production  environment  shall  include  the 
environments  where  algorithmic  trading  systems  effectively  operate  and  comprise  software 
and  hardware  used  by  traders,  order  routing  to  trading  venues,  market  data,  dependent 
databases, risk control systems, data capture and analysis systems, and post-trade processing 
systems. 

2. 
Investment  firms  may  fulfil  the  testing  requirements  under  Article  5(4)(a),  (b)  and  (d) 
using their own testing environment, or a testing environment as provided by a trading venue, 
a DEA provider, or a vendor. 

EN 

209 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Investment  firms  shall  retain  full  responsibility  for  testing  and  for  making  the  required 

3. 
changes to their algorithms, strategies or systems. 

 

Article 8 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Controlled deployment of algorithms 

Investment  firms  shall  maintain  control  over  the  trading  algorithms  that  they  deploy  in  the 
production environment by setting limits on the number of financial instruments being traded, 
on  the  price,  value  and  numbers  of  orders,  on  the  strategy  positions,  and  on  the  number  of 
trading venues to which orders are sent.  

 

SECTION 2 

Post-deployment management 

Article 9 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Annual self-assessment and validation of systems 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  perform  an  annual  self-assessment  and  validation  process  to 
elaborate  a  validation  report.  Investment  firms  shall  review  and  evaluate  their  algorithmic 
trading  systems  and  trading  algorithms,  their  governance,  accountability  and  sign-off 
framework  and  relevant  business  continuity  and  their  overall  compliance  with  Article  17  of 
Directive 2014/65/EU, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of their business. 
The self-assessment shall include an analysis of at least all the parameters set out in Annex I 
to this Regulation. 

2.  The risk management control function of the investment firm shall be responsible for the 
creation  of  the  validation  report,  and  shall  involve  staff  with  the  necessary  technical 
knowledge.  Compliance  function  shall  be  made  aware  of  any  issues  identified  in  the 
validation reports. The validation reports shall be audited by the firm’s internal audit function, 
where such function exists. 

3.  The validation reports shall be approved by the investment firm’s senior management. 

Investment  firms  shall  act  on  the  basis  of  the  review  processes  and  validation  reports 

4. 
described in this Article to remedy any deficiencies identified.  

 

EN 

Article 10 

210 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Stress testing 

As  part  of  their  annual  self-assessment  referred  to  in  Article  9,  investment  firms  shall  test 
their algorithmic trading systems  and related procedures and controls to  ensure that they are 
capable  of  withstanding  increased  order  flows  or  market  stresses.  Investment  firms  shall 
design  such  tests  to  be  specific  to  the  nature  of  their  trading  activity  and  to  their  trading 
systems. Investment firms shall ensure that the tests are carried out in such a way that they do 
not impact the production environment. Such tests shall at least consist of the following: 

(a)  running  high  messaging  volume  tests  using  at  least  twice  the  highest  volume  of 

messaging received and sent by the firm over the previous six month period;  

(b)  running  high  trade  volume  tests  using  at  least  twice  the  highest  volume  of  trading 

reached by the firm over the previous six month period. 

 

Article 11 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Management of material changes 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  ensure  that  any  material  changes  to  the  production  environment 
related to algorithmic trading shall be subject to a review by a responsible party designated by 
senior management of the investment firm. The depth of the review shall be proportionate to 
the magnitude of the proposed change.  

Investment firms shall establish procedures for internally communicating changes to the 

2. 
functionality of their systems.  

 

SECTION 3 

Means to ensure resilience 

Article 12 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Kill functionality 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  be  in  the  position  to  know  which  algorithm  and  which  trader, 
trading  desk or, where  applicable, client  is  responsible for each order that  is  being sent  to  a 
trading  venue  and  shall  have  the  ability,  as  an  emergency  measure,  to  cancel  unexecuted 
orders submitted to  individual trading venues originated by individual traders, trading desks 
or, where applicable, clients. 

EN 

211 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Investment  firms  shall  also  have  the  ability,  as  an  emergency  measure,  to  immediately 

2. 
cancel all the firm’s outstanding orders at all trading venues to which the firm is connected.  

 

Article 13  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Prevention and identification of potential market abuse or breaches  

1. 
Investment  firms  shall monitor  all  trading  activity  that  takes  place  through  their  trading 
systems,  including  that  of  their  clients,  for  signs  of  potential  market  abuse  as  specified  in 
Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014.  

2. 
In addition to the obligations contained in Article 16 of Regulation (EU) 596/EU/2014 as 
specified by [Article XX of Regulation on regulatory technical standards for the appropriate 
arrangements,  systems  and  procedures  as  well  as  notification  templates  to  be  used  for 
preventing,  detecting  and  reporting  abusive  practices  or  suspicious  orders  or  transactions], 
investment  firms  shall  establish  and  maintain  surveillance  systems  that  are  automated  and 
adapted to the nature, scale and complexity of the firm’s trading activity to conduct effective 
monitoring  of  orders  and  transactions,  generating  alerts  and  reports  and,  where  appropriate, 
employing  visualisation  tools.  The  surveillance  system  shall  cover  the  full  range  of  trading 
activities  undertaken  by  the  investment  firms  and  all  orders  submitted  by  those  firms. 
Investment firms shall cross-check any indications of suspicious trading activity generated by 
their  surveillance  systems  during  the  investigation  phase  against  other  relevant  trading 
activities undertaken by those firms. 

3. 
Investment  firms’  surveillance  system  shall  be  adaptable  to  changes  to  their  regulatory 
obligations and their trading behaviour, including changes to the firm’s own trading strategy 
or that of its clients, the type and volume of instruments traded, the size and complexity of its 
order flow, and the markets accessed.  

4.  The surveillance system shall be subject to review at least once a year, in order to assess 
whether the system itself and the parameters and filters that it employs are still adequate to the 
firm’s  regulatory  obligations  and  its  trading  behaviour,  including  the  minimisation  of  false 
positive and false negative surveillance alerts generated by the surveillance system.  

5.  Using  a sufficiently detailed level  of time  granularity, the investment  firms’ monitoring 
systems  shall  be  able  to  read,  replay  and  analyse  order  and  transaction  data  on  an  ex-post 
basis,  with  sufficient  capacity  to  be  able  to  operate  in  an  automated  low-latency  trading 
environment  where  relevant,  and  generate  operable  alerts  at  the  beginning  of  the  following 
trading day or, only in cases where manual processes are involved, at the end of the following 
trading day. In order to ensure adequate documentation and follow-up to alerts generated by 
the  surveillance  system,  the  system  shall  be  used  in  parallel  with  a  workflow  creation  and 
management system.  

EN 

212 

EN 

 
 

 

 

6.  Staff  responsible  for  monitoring  the  firm’s  trading  activities  for  the  purposes  of  the 
previous paragraphs shall report any trading  activity which may be not  compliant with  their 
firm’s  policies  and  procedures  or  with  the  firm’s  regulatory  obligations  to  the  compliance 
function to assess that information and take any appropriate actions, including reporting to the 
trading  venue  or  submitting  a  suspicious  transaction  or  order  report  in  accordance  with 
Regulation  (EU)  No  596/2014  for  the  appropriate  arrangements,  systems  and  procedures  as 
well  as  notification  templates  to  be  used  for  preventing,  detecting  and  reporting  abusive 
practices or suspicious orders or transactions. 

7. 
Investment  firms  shall  maintain  accurate,  complete,  and  consistent  trade  and  account 
information  by  reconciling  as  soon  as  practicable  their  own  electronic  trading  logs  with 
records  provided  by  trading  venues,  their  brokers,  clearing  members,  central  counterparties 
(CCPs), data providers, or other relevant business partners, as applicable and as appropriate to 
the nature, scale and complexity of the business. 

 

Article 14  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Business continuity arrangements  

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  have  business  continuity  arrangements  in  place  with  respect  to 
their algorithmic trading systems which are appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of 
their  business.  Those  arrangements  shall  be  documented  in  writing  or  any  other  durable 
medium.  

2.  Business  continuity  arrangements  of  investment  firms  shall  effectively  deal  with 
disruptive  incidents  and,  where  appropriate,  ensure  a  timely  resumption  of  algorithmic 
trading. The arrangements shall cover at least the following:  

(a)  governance for the development and deployment of the arrangements; 

(b)  a range of possible adverse scenarios relating to the operation of the algorithmic trading 
systems including at least unavailability of systems, staff, work space, external suppliers 
or dependencies and critical data and documents through loss or alteration;  

(c)  procedures  for  relocating  to,  and  operating  the  trading  system  from  a  back-up  site, 
where  having  such  a  site  is  appropriate  to  the  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  the 
algorithmic trading activities of the investment firm;  

(d)  staff training on the operation of the arrangements and individuals’ roles;  

(e)  arrangements that are bespoke to each of the venues accessed;  

(f)  usage policy regarding the firm’s kill functionality;  

EN 

213 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(g)  arrangements for shutting down the relevant trading algorithm or trading system where 

appropriate;  

(h)  alternative  arrangements  for  the  investment  firm  to  manage  outstanding  orders  and 

positions; 

3. 
Investment firms shall ensure that their trading algorithm or trading system are shut down 
in  application  of  their  business  continuity  arrangements  without  creating  disorderly  trading 
conditions.  

Investment  firms  shall  review  and  test  their  business  continuity  arrangements  on  an 

4. 
annual basis and modify the arrangements in light of the review.  

 

Article 15  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Pre-trade controls on order entry 

Investment firms shall have in place the following pre-trade controls on order entry with 

1. 
respect to all financial instruments, reinforced by appropriate continuous post-trade controls:  

(a)  price  collars  which  automatically  block  or  cancel  orders  that  do  not  meet  set  price 
parameters, differentiating between different financial instruments, both on an order-by-
order basis and over a specified period of time;  

(b)  maximum  order  value,  which  prevents  orders  with  an  uncommonly  large  order  value 

from entering the order book; 

(c)  maximum  order  volume  which  prevents  orders  with  an  uncommonly  large  order  size 

from entering the order book; 

(d)  maximum messages limit which prevents sending an excessive number of messages to 

order books pertaining to the submission, modification or cancellation of an order.  

2. 
Investment  firms  shall  have  in  place,  repeated  automated  execution  throttles  which 
control  the  number  of  times  a  strategy  was  already  applied.  After  a  configurable  number  of 
repeated executions, the system shall be disabled until re-enabled by a designated member of 
staff. 

Investment  firms  shall  immediately  include  all  orders  sent  to  a  trading  venue  into  their 

3. 
pre-trade limit calculation system. 

4. 
Investment  firms  shall  establish  and  enforce  pre-trade  risk  limits  that  are  appropriately 
calibrated for the their capital base, clearing arrangements, trading strategy, risk tolerance and 
experience,  including  variables  such  as  length  of  time  since  engaged  in  algorithmic  trading 

EN 

214 

EN 

 
 

 

 

and  its  reliance  on  third  party  vendors.  Investment  firms  shall  re-calibrate  the  pre-trade 
controls in order to account for the changing impact of the orders on the relevant market due 
to different price and liquidity levels.  

5. 
Investment  firms  shall  be  able  to  automatically  block  or  cancel  orders  from  a  trader  if 
they  are  aware  that  a  trader  does  not  have  permission  to  trade  a  particular  financial 
instrument. Investment firms shall be able to automatically block or cancel orders where they 
risk  compromising  the  firm’s  own  risk  thresholds.  Controls  shall  be  applied,  where 
appropriate, on exposures to individual clients, financial instruments, traders, trading desks or 
the investment firm as a whole.  

6.  An  investment  firm  shall  have  procedures  and  arrangements  for  dealing  with  orders 
which have been automatically blocked by its pre-trade controls but which the firm wishes to 
submit  upon  authorisation  of  an  empowered  individual  within  the  investment  firm.  Such 
procedures and arrangements shall apply on a temporary and exceptional basis.  

7.  Pre-trade  controls  may  only  be  overridden  in  relation  to  a  specific  trade  with  the  full 
knowledge of relevant staff responsible in the risk management function.  

 

Article 16 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Real-time monitoring 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall,  during  the  hours  they  are  sending  orders  to  trading  venues, 
monitor  in  real  time  all  algorithmic  trading  activity  that  takes  place  under  their  code, 
including that of their clients, for signs of disorderly trading, including from a cross-market, 
cross-asset class, or cross-product perspective, in cases where the firm or its clients engage in 
such activities.  

2.  Real-time  monitoring  of  algorithms  shall  be  undertaken  by  the  trader  in  charge  of  the 
algorithm and also by an independent risk control function. The risk control function shall be 
considered as independent, regardless of whether the real-time monitoring is conducted by a 
member  of  the  staff  or  by  an  outsourced  function,  provided  that  it  is  not  hierarchically 
dependent  on  the  trader  and  can  offer  appropriate  challenge  as  necessary  within  the 
governance framework. 

3.  Staff  members  in  charge  of  real-time  monitoring  shall  respond  to  operational  and 
regulatory issues in a timely manner, initiating remedial action where necessary. 

4. 
Investment firms shall have procedures in place to ensure that their competent authorities, 
the relevant trading venues and, where applicable, DEA providers, clearing member or CCP 
have  access  to  staff  members  in  charge  of  real-time  monitoring.  Communication  channels 
shall be identified  and tested periodically to  ensure that in  an emergency, the adequate staff 

EN 

215 

EN 

 
 

 

 

members  with  the  adequate  level  of  authority  may  reach  each  other  in  a  timely  fashion  in 
order  to  ensure  a  fair  and  orderly  market.  In  addition,  contact  procedure  for  out-of-trading 
hours shall also be established.  

5.  Monitoring  systems  shall  have  real-time  alerts  to  assist  staff  in  identifying  any 
unanticipated activities undertaken by an algorithm. Investment firms shall have a process in 
place  to  take  remedial  action  as  soon  as  possible  after  an  alert  is  generated,  including,  as 
necessary,  an  orderly  withdrawal  from  the  market.  These  monitoring  systems  shall  also 
provide alerts in relation to algorithms and DEA orders triggering circuit breakers of a trading 
venue. 

6.  Real-time alerts shall be generated within five seconds of the relevant event. 

 

Article 17 

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU)  

Post-trade controls 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  continuously  operate  the  post-trade  controls  that  they  have  in 
place.  Where  a  post-trade  control  is  triggered,  the  firm  shall  undertake  appropriate  action 
which  may  include  adjusting  or  shutting  down  the  relevant  trading  algorithm  or  trading 
system or an orderly withdrawal from the market.  

2.  Post-trade controls referred to in paragraph 1 shall include as a minimum the continuous 
assessment  and  monitoring  of  market  and  credit  risk  of  the  investment  firm  in  terms  of 
effective exposure.  

3. 
Investment  firms  shall  maintain  trade  and  account  information  which  is  complete, 
accurate  and  consistent.  Investment  firms  shall  reconcile  their  own  electronic  trading  logs 
with  information  regarding  their  outstanding  orders  and  risk  exposures  as  provided  by  the 
trading venue to which they send orders, their broker or DEA provider, their clearing member 
or CCP, their data providers, or other relevant business partners. Reconciliation shall be made 
in  real  time  where  the  aforementioned  market  participants  provide  the  information  in  real-
time.  Investment  firms  shall  have  the  capability  to  calculate  their  outstanding  exposure  and 
that of their traders and clients in real time.  

4.  For  derivatives,  the  post-trade  controls  referred  to  in  paragraph  1  shall  include  as  a 
minimum, controls regarding the maximum long and short and overall strategy positions, with 
trading limits to be set in units appropriate to the types of instruments involved. 

5.  Post-trade  monitoring  shall  be  undertaken  by  the  relevant  traders  responsible  for  the 
algorithm and one or more risk control functions within the firm. 

 

EN 

216 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 18  

(Article 17(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Security and limits to access  

Investment firms shall implement an IT strategy with defined objectives and measures in 

1. 
line with:  

(a)  the  business  and  risk  strategy  of  the  firm  as  well  as  its  operational  activities  and  the 

risks to which the firm is exposed;  

(b)  a reliable IT organisation, including service, production, and development;  

(c)  an effective IT security management.  

2. 
Investment  firms  shall  set  up  and  maintain  appropriate  arrangements  for  physical  and 
electronic  security  that  minimise  the  risks  of  attacks  against  their  information  systems. 
Measures shall ensure the confidentiality, integrity, authenticity, and availability of data, and 
the reliability and robustness of their systems. 

3. 
Investment  firms  shall  promptly  inform  their  competent  authorities  of  any  material 
breaches  in  their  physical  and  electronic  security  measures.  An  incident  report  shall  be 
provided to its competent authority indicating the nature of the incident, the measures adopted 
to cope in an emergency and the initiatives taken to avoid similar incidents from recurring.  

4. 
Investment  firms  shall  undertake  penetration  tests  and  vulnerability  scans  to  safeguard 
against cyber-attacks at least on a yearly basis. They shall implement appropriate safeguards 
against attackers which may include effective identity and access management.  

5. 
Investment firms shall ensure that they are able to identify all persons who have critical 
user  access  rights  to  IT  systems.  Investment  firms  shall  restrict  the  number  of  such  persons 
and shall monitor their access to IT systems to ensure traceability at all times. 

 

CHAPTER III  

DIRECT ELECTRONIC ACCESS 

Article 19  

(Article 17(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

General provisions for DEA 

1.  DEA  providers  shall  always  retain  responsibility  for  the  trading  that  their  DEA  clients 
carry out in their name.  

EN 

217 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  DEA  providers  shall  establish  policies  and  procedures  to  ensure  that  trading  of  DEA 
clients  complies  with  the  trading  venue’s  rules  and  allows  the  DEA  providers  to  meet  the 
requirements applicable to DEA.  

 

Article 20  

(Article 17(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Systems and controls of DEA providers  

1.  DEA providers shall apply pre-trade and post-trade controls on the order flow of each of 
their  DEA  clients  as  well  as  real-time  monitoring  and  market  surveillance  controls  in 
accordance with Articles 13, 15, 16 and 17. The controls to be applied by DEA providers shall 
be  separate  and  distinct  from  those  of  DEA  clients.  In  particular,  and  regardless  of  the 
application  by  the  DEA  client  of  its  own  pre-trade  and  post-trade  controls,  real-time 
monitoring  and  market  surveillance  controls,  the  orders  of  DEA  clients  shall  always  pass 
through the pre-trade controls that are set and controlled by the DEA provider. 

2.  DEA providers may use their own proprietary pre-trade and post-trade controls, controls 
provided  by  a  third  party  or  controls  offered  by  the  trading  venue.  In  all  circumstances  the 
DEA provider shall remain responsible for the effectiveness of those controls and shall ensure 
that at  all time the DEA provider is  solely entitled to  set  or modify the  parameters or limits 
that  apply  to  these  pre-trade  and  post-trade  controls.  The  DEA  provider  shall  monitor  the 
performance of the pre-trade and post-trade controls on an on-going basis.  

3.  The limits of the pre-trade controls on order submission shall be based on the credit and 
risk limits  which the DEA provider  applies to the trading activity of its  DEA clients.  Those 
limits shall be based on the initial due diligence and periodic review of the client.  

4.  The parameters and limits of the controls applied to clients using sponsored access shall 
be at least as stringent as those imposed on clients using DMA.  

 

Article 21  

(Article 17(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Specifications for DEA provider systems  

1.  DEA providers shall have the ability to:  

(a)  monitor  any  orders  submitted  by  DEA  clients  using  the  trading  code  of  the  DEA 

provider;  

EN 

218 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(b)  automatically  block  or  cancel  orders  from  individuals  operating  trading  systems  that 
submit  orders  related  to  algorithmic  trading  which  are  not  the  ones  specifically 
authorised to send orders through DEA; 

(c)  automatically block or cancel orders from  a DEA client in  financial instruments that a 
DEA client does not have permission to trade. The investment firm must use an internal 
flagging system to identify and to block single clients or a group of clients;  

(d)  automatically  block  or  cancel  orders  of  a  DEA  client  when  they  breach  the  DEA 
provider’s  risk  management  thresholds.  Controls  shall  be  applied  to  exposures  of 
individual clients, financial instruments or groups of clients; 

(e)  stop order flow transmitted by their DEA clients;  

(f)  suspend  or  withdraw  DEA  services  to  any  clients  where  the  DEA  provider  is  not 
satisfied that continued  access  would be consistent with  their rules and  procedures for 
fair and orderly trading and market integrity;  

(g)  carry out,  whenever necessary, a review of the internal  risk control systems  of a DEA 

client.  

2.  DEA providers shall have procedures to evaluate, manage and mitigate market disruption 
and firm-wide risk, and shall be able to identify the persons to be notified in the event of an 
error  resulting  in  violations  of  the  risk  profile,  or  potential  violations  of  the  trading  venue's 
rules.  

3.  DEA providers shall at all times have the ability to identify the different clients, and the 
trading  desks  and  traders  of  those  clients,  who  submit  orders  through  the  DEA  provider’s 
systems by assigning unique identification code to them.  

4.  Where a DEA provider allows a client to sub-delegate the DEA access it receives to its 
own  clients,  the  DEA  provider  shall  be  able  to  identify  the  different  order  flows  from  the 
beneficiaries of the sub-delegation. For these purposes, it will not be necessary for the DEA 
provider to know the identity of these beneficiaries of the sub-delegation.  

5.  DEA  providers  shall  record  the  relevant  data  relating  to  the  orders  submitted  by  their 
DEA  clients,  including  modifications  and  cancellations,  the  alerts  generated  by  their 
monitoring systems and the modifications made to their filtering process.  

 

Article 22  

(Article 17(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Due diligence on prospective DEA clients  

EN 

219 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1. 
Investment  firms  offering  DEA  shall  conduct  due  diligence  on  their  prospective  DEA 
clients  to  ensure they meet  the  requirements set  out  in  this Regulation  and the standards set 
out by the trading venue to which they offer access to.  

2.  Due diligence shall cover at least:  

(a)  governance and ownership structure;  

(b)  types of strategies to be undertaken by the prospective DEA client;  

(c)  operational  set-up,  systems  and  pre-trade  and  post-trade  controls  of  the  prospective 
DEA client. Where the DEA provider allows clients to use third-party trading software 
for accessing trading venues it shall ensure that the software includes pre-trade controls 
at least equivalent to the pre-trade controls set out in this Regulation;  

(d)  allocation of responsibilities for dealing with actions and errors;  

(e)  the historical trading pattern and behaviour of the prospective DEA client;  

(f)  an assessment of the level of expected trading and order volume of the prospective DEA 

client; 

(g)  the ability of the prospective DEA client to meet their financial obligations to the firm; 

(h)  the disciplinary history of the prospective DEA client, where available.  

3.  Where  a  DEA  provider  allows  a  client  to  sub-delegate  the  access  it  receives  to  its  own 
clients,  the  DEA  provider  shall  ensure  that  its  prospective  DEA  client  has  a  due  diligence 
framework in place at least equivalent to the one described in this Article.  

 

Article 23 

(Article 17(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Periodical review of DEA clients 

1.  DEA  providers  shall  review  their  due  diligence  assessment  processes  at  least  on  an 
annual basis. 

2.  DEA providers shall carry out an annual risk-based reassessment of the adequacy of their 
clients’ systems and controls, in particular taking into account changes to the scale, nature or 
complexity  of  their  trading  activities  or  strategies,  or  changes  to  their  staffing,  ownership 
structure, trading or bank account, regulatory status, or financial position or whether the DEA 
client will sub-delegate the access it receives from the DEA provider.  

 

EN 

220 

EN 

 
 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

FIRMS ACTING AS GENERAL CLEARING MEMBERS 

Article 24  

(Article 17(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Systems and controls of firms acting as general clearing members  

Any systems used by clearing firms to support the provision of their clearing services to their 
clients shall be subject to appropriate due diligence, controls, and monitoring.  

 

Article 25  

(Article 17(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Due diligence on clients 

1.  Clearing  firms  shall  make  an  initial  assessment  of  any  prospective  clearing  client 
according  to  the  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  the  prospective  client’s  business.  Each 
potential client shall be assessed against at least the following criteria:  

(a)  credit strength including consideration of any guarantees;  

(b)  internal risk control systems;  

(c)  intended trading strategy;  

(d)  payment  systems  and  arrangements  that  enable  clients  to  ensure  a  timely  transfer  of 
assets or cash as margin required by the clearing firm in relation to the clearing services 
it provides;  

(e)  systems setting and/or access to information that helps clients to respect any maximum 

trading limit agreed with the clearing firm;  

(f)  any collateral provided to the clearing firm by the client;  

(g)  operational resources including technological interfaces and connectivity;  

(h)  any  involvement  in  breach  of  financial  markets  integrity,  including  market  abuse, 

financial crime and money laundering activities, where available.  

2.  Clearing firms shall review their clients’ on-going performance against the criteria listed 
above, and any additional criteria that the clearing firm has imposed, on an annual basis. The 
binding  written  agreement  between  the  clearing  firm  and  its  clients  shall  include  the  above 
criteria,  including  the  frequency  at  which  the  clearing  firm  will  review  its  clients’ 
performance against these criteria and the consequences of clients not complying with them.  

EN 

221 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

Article 26  

(Article 17(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Position limits  

1.  Clearing firms shall set and communicate appropriate trading and position limits to their 
clients in order to mitigate and manage their own counterparty, liquidity, operational and any 
other risks.  

2.  Clearing firms  shall monitor their clients’ positions against these limits  as close to  real-
time basis as possible and have appropriate pre-trade and post-trade procedures for managing 
the risk of breaches, by way of appropriate margining practice and other means.  

3.  Clearing  firms  shall  document  such  procedures  in  writing  and  maintain  records  of  their 
compliance.  

 

Article 27  

(Article 17(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Disclosure of information about the services provided 

1.  Clearing  firms  shall  publicly  disclose  their  general  policy  concerning  conditions 
applicable to clients to whom clearing services are offered.  

2.  Clearing  firms  shall  publicly  disclose  the  levels  of  protection  and  the  costs  associated 
with  the  different  levels  of  segregation  that  they  provide  and  shall  offer  those  services  on 
reasonable  commercial  terms.  Details  of  the  different  levels  of  segregation  shall  include  a 
description  of  the  main  legal  implications  of  the  respective  levels  of  segregation  offered 
including information on the insolvency law applicable in the relevant jurisdiction.  

 

CHAPTER V 

HIGH-FREQUENCY ALGORITHMIC TRADING TECHNIQUE AND FINAL 

PROVISIONS 

Article 28 

(Article 17(2) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Content and format of order records 

1. 
Investment  firms  that  engage  in  a  high-frequency  algorithmic  trading  technique  shall 
immediately record the details of each placed order set out in the second and third column of 
tables 2 and 3 of Annex II insofar as they pertain to the order concerned. 

EN 

222 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2. 
Investment  firms  that  engage  in  a  high-frequency  algorithmic  trading  technique  shall 
maintain the information referred to in paragraph 1 in the standards and formats specified in 
the fourth column of tables 2 and 3 of Annex II. 

 

Article 29 

(Article 17(2) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Time limits 

Investment firms that engage in a high-frequency algorithmic trading technique shall keep the 
records  required  as  set  out  in  Article  28  for  a  period  of  five  years  as  from  the  date  of  their 
submission to a trading venue or to another investment firm for execution.  

 

Article 30 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017.  

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

223 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex  I:  Parameters  to  be  considered  in  the  investment  firm’s 
self-assessment  

1.  When considering the nature of its business, an investment firm shall consider at least the 
following, where applicable: 

(a)  the regulatory status of the firm and, where applicable of its DEA clients, including the 
regulatory  requirements  to  which  it  is  subject  as  an  investment  firm  under  Directive 
2014/65/EU, and to other regulatory requirements as relevant; 

(b)  the  firm’s  roles  in  the  market  including  whether  it  is  a  market  maker,  whether  it 

executes orders for clients, or whether it only trades on own account; 

(c)  the level of automation of trading and other processes or activities of the firm; 

(d)  the  types  and  regulatory  status  of  the  instruments,  products  and  asset  classes  that  the 

firm trades in; 

(e)  the  types  of  strategies  the  firm  employs  and  the  risks  contained  in  these  strategies  for 
the firm’s own risk management and for the fair and orderly functioning of the markets ; 
the firm shall consider in particular the nature of these strategies, such as market making 
or arbitrage, and whether these strategies are long-term, short-term, directional, or non-
directional; 

(f)  the latency sensitivity of the firm’s strategies and trading activities; 

(g)  the type and regulatory status of trading venues and other liquidity pools accessed and 

in particular whether they are lit, dark, over-the-counter (OTC) trading; 

(h)  the  connectivity  solutions  of  the  firm  and  whether  it  accesses  trading  venues  as  a 

member, as a DEA client or DEA provider; 

(i) 

the extent to which the firm relies on third parties for the development and maintenance 
of its algorithms or trading systems and whether these algorithms or trading systems are 
self-developed, co-developed with a third party, or purchased from, or outsourced to, a 
third party; 

(j) 

the firm’s ownership and governance structure, how it is structured organisationally and 
operationally,  and  whether  it  is  a  partnership,  subsidiary,  publicly  traded  company,  or 
otherwise; 

(k)  the firm’s risk management, compliance, and audit structure and organisation; and, 

EN 

 

224 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(l) 

the  date  of  establishement  of  the  firm  and  level  of  experience  and  competency  of  its 
personnel and  whether it is a start-up or an incumbent. 

2.  When considering the scale of its business, an investment firm shall consider at least the 
following, where applicable:  

(a)  the number of algorithms and strategies running in parallel; 

(b)  the number of individual instruments, products, and asset classes traded; 

(c)  the number of trading desks operated and individual trading identifiers used; 

(d)  the  messaging  volume  capacities  and  in  particular  the  number  of  orders  submitted, 

adjusted, cancelled and executed; 

(e)  the monetary value of its gross and net positions intraday and overnight; 

(f)  the number of markets accessed either as a member or participant or via DEA; 

(g)  the number and size of the firm’s clients  and notably the firm’s DEA clients; 

(h)  the number of co-location or proximity hosting sites to which the firm has connectivity; 

(i) 

the throughput size of connectivity infrastructure of the firm; 

(j) 

the number of clearing members or CCP memberships of the firm; 

(k)  the firm’s size in terms of number of traders and front-office, middle-office and back-

office staff employed as full-time equivalent; 

(l) 

the number of the firm’s physical locations; 

(m) the number of countries and regions in which the firm is undertaking trading activities; 

(n)  the firm’s annual earnings and profits.  

3.  When  considering  the  complexity  of  its  business,  an  investment  firm  shall  consider  at 
least the following, where applicable:  

(a)  the  nature  of  the  strategies  carried  out  by  the  firm  or  by  its  clients,  to  the  extent  that 
these strategies are known by the firm and, in particular, whether these strategies imply 
algorithms  initiating  orders  related  to  correlated  instruments  or  on  several  trading 
venues or liquidity pools; 

(b)  the firm’s algorithms, in terms of coding, inputs upon which the algorithms are reliant, 

interdependencies, and the rule exceptions contained in the algorithms, or otherwise; 

EN 

 

225 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

 

(c)  the  firm’s  trading  systems  in  terms  of  diversity  of  trading  systems  employed,  and  the 
extent to which the firm’s has control over setting, adjusting, testing, and reviewing of 
its trading systems; 

(d)  the  structure  of  the  firm  in  terms  of  ownership  and  governance  and  its  organisational, 

operational, technical, physical, or geographical set up; 

(e)  the diversity of the firm’s connectivity, technology or clearing solutions;  

(f)  the diversity of the firm’s physical trading infrastructures;  

(g)  the level of outsourcing undertaken or offered by the firm and in particular where key 

functions are being outsourced; 

(h)  the firm’s provision or usage of DEA, whether it is DMA or sponsored access, and the 

conditions under which DEA is offered to clients; and, 

(i) 

the speed of trading by the firm or its clients. 

 

EN 

 

226 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex II: Content and format of order records  

Table 1 

Legend for Tables 2 and 3 

SYMBOL 

DATA TYPE  DEFINITION 

{ALPHANUM-
n}  

{CURRENCYC
ODE_3} 

{DATE_TIME_
FORMAT} 

Up to n 
alphanumerical 
characters 

3 
alphanumerical 
characters 

ISO 8601 date 
and time 
format 

{DECIMAL-
n/m} 

{INTEGER-n} 

{ISIN} 

Decimal 
number of up 
to n digits in 
total of which 
up to m digits 
can be fraction 
digits 

Integer number 
of up to n 
digits in total 

12 
alphanumerical 
characters 

Free text field. 

3 letter currency code, as defined by ISO 4217 currency 
codes 

Date and time in the following format:  
YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.ddddddZ.  

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

‘YYYY’ is the year; 
‘MM’ is the month; 
‘DD’ is the day; 
‘T’ – means that the letter ‘T’ shall be used 
‘hh’ is the hour; 
‘mm’ is the minute; 
‘ss.dddddd’ is the second and its fraction of a 
second; 

-  Z is UTC time.  

Dates and times shall be reported in UTC. 

Numerical field for both positive and negative values. 

-  decimal separator is '.' (full stop);  
-  negative numbers are prefixed with '-' (minus); 
-  values are rounded and not truncated. 

Numerical field for both positive and negative integer 
values. 

ISIN code as defined in ISO 6166 

EN 

 

227 

EN 

 
 

 

 

{LEI} 

{MIC} 

Legal entity identifier as defined in ISO 17442 

Market identifier as defined in ISO 10383 

20 
alphanumerical 
characters 

4 
alphanumerical 
characters 

{NATIONAL_I
D} 

40 
alphanumerical 
characters 

The ID is that set out in Article 6 and ANNEX II of [RTS 
22 on transaction reporting obligations under Article 26 
of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]. 

 

 

 

EN 

 

228 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Information relating to every initial decision to deal and incoming orders from clients 

Table 2 

N. 
1 

Field 
Client first name (s) 

2 

Client surname (s) 

3 

Client identification 
code  
 

4 

5 

6 

Name(s) of person 
acting on behalf of the 
client 

Surname(s) of person 
acting on behalf of the 
client 

Investment decision 
within firm 

EN 

 

Description 
Full first name(s) of the client. In case of 
more than one first name, all names shall 
be included in this field separated by a 
comma. 
This field shall be left blank in case of 
coverage by the Legal Entity Identifier 
(LEI) 
 Full surname(s) of the client. In case of 
more than one surname, all surnames 
shall be included in this field separated 
by a comma. 
This field shall be left blank in case of 
coverage by the Legal Entity Identifier 
(LEI) 
Code used to identify the client of the 
investment firm. In case of DEA, the 
code of the DEA user shall be used. 
Where the client is a legal entity, the LEI 
code of the client shall be used. 
Where the client is not a legal entity, the 
{NATIONAL_ID} shall be used. 
In the case of aggregated orders, the flag 
AGGR as specified in Article 2(3) of 
[RTS 24 on maintenance of relevant data 
relating to orders in financial instruments 
under article 25(2) of Regulation (EU) 
No 600/2014] shall be used 
In case of pending allocations, the flag 
PNAL as specified in Article 2(2) of 
[RTS 24 on maintenance of relevant data 
relating to orders in financial instruments 
under article 25(2) of Regulation (EU) 
No 600/2014] shall be used.  
This field shall be left blank only if the 
investment firm has no client. 
This field shall contain the full first 
name(s) of the person acting on behalf of 
the client. 
In case of more than 1 first name, all 
names shall be included in this field 
separated by a comma. 
This field shall contain the full 
surname(s) of the person acting on 
behalf of the client. In case of more than 
1 surname, all surnames shall be 
included in this field separated by a 
comma. 
Code used to identify the person or the 
algorithm within the investment firm 
who is responsible for the investment 

229 

EN 

Standards and Format 
{ALPHANUM-140} 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

{LEI} 
{NATIONAL_ID} 
‘AGGR’ – aggregated orders 
‘PNAL’ – pending allocations  

{ALPHANUM-140} 

{ALPHANUM-140} 

{NATIONAL_ID} - Natural 
persons 
{ALPHANUM-50} - Algorithms 

 
 

 

 

7 

Initial order 
designation 

8 

Buy-Sell indicator 

EN 

 

decision in accordance with Article 8 of 
[RTS 22 on transaction reporting under 
Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014.].  
Where a natural person was responsible 
for the investment decision the person 
who was responsible or had primary 
responsibility for the investment 
decision shall be identified with the 
{NATIONAL_ID} 
Where an algorithm was responsible for 
the investment decision the field shall be 
populated as set out in Article 8(3) of 
[RTS 22 on transaction reporting under 
Article 26 of of Regulation (EU) No 
600/2014]. . 
This field shall be left blank when the 
investment decision was not made by a 
person or an algorithm within the 
investment firm. 
Code used to identify the order that was 
received from the client or generated by 
the investment firm before the order is 
processed and submitted to the trading 
venue or investment firm. 
To show if the order is to buy or sell. 
In case of options and swaptions, the 
buyer shall be the counterparty that 
holds the right to exercise the option and 
the seller shall be the counterparty that 
sells the option and receives a premium. 
In case of futures and forwards other 
than futures and forwards relating to 
currencies, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty buying the instrument and 
the seller the counterparty selling the 
instrument. 
In the case of swaps relating to 
securities, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that gets the risk of price 
movement of the underlying security and 
receives the security amount. The seller 
shall be the counterparty paying the 
security amount. 
In the case of swaps related to interest 
rates or inflation indices, the buyer shall 
be the counterparty paying the fixed rate. 
The seller shall be the counterparty 
receiving the fixed rate. In case of basis 
swaps (float-to-float interest rate swaps), 
the buyer shall be the counterparty that 
pays the spread and the seller the 
counterparty that receives the spread. 
In the case of swaps and forwards related 
to currencies and of cross currency 
swaps, the buyer shall be the 

230 

EN 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

‘BUYI’ – buy 
‘SELL’ – sell  

 
 

 

 

9 

10 

Financial instrument 
identification code  
Price  

EN 

 

counterparty receiving the currency 
which is first when sorted alphabetically 
by ISO 4217 standard and the seller shall 
be the counterparty delivering this 
currency. 
In the case of swap related to dividends, 
the buyer shall be the counterparty 
receiving the equivalent actual dividend 
payments. The seller is the counterparty 
paying the dividend and receiving the 
fixed rate. 
In the case of derivative instruments for 
the transfer of credit risk except options 
and swaptions, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty buying the protection. The 
seller is the counterparty selling the 
protection. 
In case of derivative contracts related to 
commodities, the buyer shall be the 
counterparty that receives the 
commodity specified in the report and 
the seller the counterparty delivering this 
commodity. 
In case of forward rate agreements, the 
buyer shall be the counterparty paying 
the fixed rate and the seller the 
counterparty receiving the fixed rate 
For an increase in notional the buyer 
shall be the same as the acquirer of the 
financial instrument in the original 
transaction and the seller shall be the 
same as the disposer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction.  
For a decrease in notional the buyer shall 
be the same as the disposer of the 
financial instrument in the original 
transaction and the seller shall be the 
same as the acquirer of the financial 
instrument in the original transaction. 
 
Unique and unambiguous identifier of 
the financial instrument 
Limit price of the order excluding, where 
applicable, commission and accrued 
interest. 
For stop orders, this shall be the stop 
price for the order. 
In the case of option contracts, it is the 
premium of the derivative contract per 
underlying security or index point. 
In the case of spread bets it shall be the 
reference price of the direct underlying 
instrument. 
For credit default swaps, it shall be the 
coupon in basis points.  
Where price reported in monetary terms, 

231 

EN 

{ISIN} 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the 
price is expressed as monetary 
value value 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the 
price is expressed as percentage 
or yield 
’PNDG’ in case the price is not 
available 
 

 
 

 

 

11 

Price notation 

12 

Price multiplier 

13 

Price currency  

 

14 

Currency of leg 2 

15 

Underlying instrument 
code 

EN 

 

it shall be provided in the major currency 
unit. 
Where price is not applicable the field 
shall be left blank. 
Where price is currently not available 
but pending, the value shall be ’PNDG’. 
If the agreed price is zero a price of zero 
shall be used. 
Where applicable, values shall not be 
rounded or truncated 
Indication as to whether the price and the 
strike price is expressed in monetary 
value, in percentage or in yield. 
Number of units of the underlying 
instruments represented by a single 
derivative contract.  
Monetary value covered by a single 
swap contract where the quantity field 
indicates the number of swap contracts 
in the transaction. For a future or option 
on an index, the amount per index point.  
For spreadbets the movement in the 
price of the underlying instrument on 
which the spreadbet is based.  
The information reported in this field 
shall be consistent with the values 
provided in fields 10 and 26. 
Currency in which the price for the 
financial instrument related to the order 
is expressed (applicable if the price is 
expressed as monetary value). 
In the case of multi-currency or cross-
currency swaps the currency in which 
leg 2 of the contract is denominated. 
For swaptions where the underlying 
swap is multi-currency, the currency in 
which leg 2 of the swap is denominated. 
This field is only applicable to interest 
rate and currency derivatives contracts 
ISIN code of the underlying instrument. 
For ADRs, GDRs and similar 
instruments, the {ISIN} of the financial 
instrument on which the instruments is 
based. 
For Convertible bonds, the {ISIN} of the 
instrument into which the bond can be 
converted. 
For derivatives or other instruments 
which have an underlying, the ISIN code 
for the underlying instrument, when the 
underlying is admitted to trading, or 
traded on a trading venue. Where the 
underlying is a stock dividend, then ISIN 
code of the related share entitling the 
underlying dividend. 
For Credit Default Swaps, the ISIN of 

232 

EN 

‘MONE’ – Monetary value 
‘PERC’ – Percentage 
‘YIEL’ – Yield 
{DECIMAL- 18/17} 
‘1’ - If non-derivative financial 
instruments not traded by 
contracts. 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

{ISIN}  
 

 
 

 

 

16 

Option type  

17 

Strike price 

18 
19 

Strike price currency 
Up-front payment 

EN 

 

the reference obligation shall be 
provided.  
In case the underlying is an Index and 
has an ISIN, the ISIN code for that 
index. 
When the underlying is a basket, include 
all the ISINs for each constituent of the 
basket that is admitted to trading or is 
traded on a trading venue. This field 
shall be repeated as many times as 
necessary to list all instruments in the 
basket. 
Indication as to whether the derivative 
contract is a call (right to purchase a 
specific underlying asset) or a put (right 
to sell a specific underlying asset) or 
whether it cannot be determined whether 
it is a call or a put at the time the order is 
placed. In case of swaptions it shall be: 
- “PUTO”, in case of receiver swaption, 
in which the buyer has the right to enter 
into a swap as a fixed-rate receiver. 
-“CALL”, in case of payer swaption, in 
which the buyer has the right to enter 
into a swap as a fixed-rate payer.  
In case of Caps and Floors it shall be: 
-“PUTO”, in case of a Floor. 
-“CALL”, in case of a Cap.  
Field only applies to derivatives that are 
options or warrants. 
Predetermined price at which the holder 
will have to buy or sell the underlying 
instrument or an indication that the price 
cannot be determined at the time the 
order is placed. 
Field only applies to an option or 
warrant where strike price can be 
determined at the time the order is 
placed. 
Where strike price is not applicable the 
field shall not be populated. 
 
Currency of the Strike Price 
Monetary value of any up-front payment 
in basis points of notional received or 
paid by the seller. 
Where the seller receives the up-front 
payment, the value populated is positive. 
Where the seller pays the up-front 
payment, the value populated is 
negative. 
For an increase or decrease of notional in 
derivative contracts, the number shall 
reflect the absolute value of the change 
and shall be expressed as a positive 
number. 

233 

EN 

'PUTO' – Put 
'CALL' – Call 
‘OTHR’ – where it cannot be 
determined whether it is a call or 
a put  
 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in case the 
price is expressed as monetary 
value. 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in case the 
price is expressed as percentage 
or yield. 
’PNDG’ in case the price is not 
available 
 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 
{DECIMAL-18/5} 

 
 

 

 

20 

Delivery type 

21 

Option exercise style 
 

22 

Maturity date 

23 

Expiry date 

24 

Quantity currency 

25 

Quantity notation 

26 

Initial quantity 

27 

Date and time 

EN 

 

‘PHYS’ - Physically settled 
‘CASH’ - Cash settled 
‘OPTL’ - Optional for 
counterparty or when determined 
by a third party 

‘EURO’ - European 
‘AMER’ - American 
‘ASIA’ - Asian 
‘BERM’ - Bermudan 
‘OTHR’ - Any other type 

{DATEFORMAT} 

{DATEFORMAT} 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

 ‘UNIT’ - Number of units 
‘NOML’ - Nominal value 
‘MONE’ - Monetary or nominal 
value 
{DECIMAL-18/17} in case the 
quantity is expressed as number 
of units 
{DECIMAL-18/5} in case the 
quantity is expressed as monetary 
or nominal value 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT} 
 
The number of digits after the 
‘seconds’ shall be determined in 
accordance with Table 2 in the 
Annex of the [RTS 25 on clock 
synchronisation under article 50 
of Directive 2014/65/EU]. 

Indication as to whether the transaction 
is settled physically or in cash. 
Where delivery type cannot be 
determined at time of order placement, 
the value shall be ’OPTL’. 
The field is only applicable for 
derivatives. 
Indication as to whether the option may 
be exercised only at a fixed date 
(European, and Asian style), a series of 
pre-specified dates (Bermudan) or at any 
time during the life of the contract 
(American style).  
 
This field is only applicable for options 
Date of maturity of the financial 
instrument.  
Field only applies to debt instruments 
with defined maturity. 
Expiry date of the reported financial 
instrument. Field only applies to 
derivatives with defined expiry date. 
Currency in which the quantity is 
expressed. 
Only applicable if quantity is expressed 
as nominal or monetary value. 
Indication as to whether the quantity 
reported is expressed in number of units, 
in nominal value or in monetary value. 
 
The number of units of the financial 
instrument, or the number of derivative 
contracts in the order. 
The nominal or monetary value of the 
financial instrument. 
For spread bets, the quantity shall be the 
monetary value wagered per point 
movement in the underlying financial 
instrument. 
For increase or decrease in notional 
derivative contracts, the number shall 
reflect the absolute value of the change 
and shall be expressed as a positive 
number. 
For credit default swaps, the quantity 
shall be the notional amount for which 
the protection is acquired or disposed of. 
The exact date and time of the receipt of 
the order or the exact date and time 
when the decision to deal was made. 
This field shall be maintained in 
accordance with Article 3 and table 2 in 
the Annex of the [RTS 25 on clock 
synchronisation under article 50 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU].  
 

234 

EN 

 
 

 

 

28 

 

Additional information 
from the client 

Any instructions, parameters, conditions 
and any other details of the order that 
was transmitted by the client to the 
investment firm. 

Free text 

 

 

EN 

 

235 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Table 3 

Information relating to outgoing and executed orders 

Format 
‘BUYI’ – buy 
‘SELL’ – sell  

‘DEAL’ - Dealing on own 
account 
‘MTCH’ - Matched 
principal 
‘AOTC’ - Any other 
capacity 

'true' 
'false' 

{NATIONAL_ID} - 
Natural persons 
{ALPHANUM-50} - 
Algorithms 

N.  Field/Content 
1 

Description 

Buy-Sell indicator   To show if the order is to buy or sell 

2 

The trading 
capacity 

3 

Liquidity provision 
activity 

4 

Execution within 
firm 

as determined in the description of 
field 8 of the above table. 
Indication of whether the order 
submission result from the member 
or participant or client of the trading 
venue carrying out matched principal 
trading under Article 4(38) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU or dealing on 
own account under Article 4(6) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU.  
Where the order submission does not 
result from the member, participants 
or client of the trading venue 
carrying out matched principal 
trading or dealing on own account, 
the field shall indicate that the 
transaction was carried out under any 
other capacity. 
Indication as to whether an order is 
submitted to a trading venue as part 
of a market making strategy pursuant 
to Articles 17 and 48 of Directive 
2014/65/EU or other activity carried 
out on the basis of terms which have 
been pre-determined by the issuer of 
the instrument which is the subject of 
the order or by the trading venue to 
which the order is submitted. 
Code used to identify the person or 
algorithm within the investment firm 
who is responsible for the execution 
of the transaction resulting from the 
order in accordance with Article 10 
of RTS on reporting obligations 
under Article 26 of MiFIR. 
Where a natural person is responsible 
for the execution of the transaction, 
the person shall be identified by 
{NATIONAL_ID} 
Where an algorithm is responsible 
for the execution of the transaction, 

EN 

 

236 

EN 

 
 

 

 

5 

6 

7 

The identification 
code of the order 
submitted to the 
trading venue or 
another investment 
firm 
The identification 
code of the order 
assigned by another 
investment firm or 
trading venue to 
whom the order 
was submitted 
Order receiver 
identification code 

8 

Order type  

9 

Limit price 

this field shall be populated in 
accordance with Article 10(3) of 
RTS on reporting obligations under 
Article 26 of MiFIR. 
Where more than one person or a 
combination of persons and 
algorithms are involved in the 
execution of the transaction the firm 
shall determine the trader or 
algorithm primarily responsible as 
specified in Article 10(4) of RTS on 
reporting obligations under Article 
26 of MiFIR and populate this field 
with the identity of that trader or 
algorithm. 
This field shall only be applicable for 
executed orders. 
Internal code used by the investment 
firm to identify the order submitted 
to the trading venues or other 
investment firm provided that it is 
unique per trading day and per 
financial instrument 
Where the investment firm submits 
the order to another investment firm 
or trading venue for execution, this 
field shall be populated with the 
identification code assigned by the 
latter investment firm or trading 
venue upon receipt of the order. 
The code of the investment firm to 
whom the order was transmitted or 
code of the trading venue to whom 
the order was transmitted. 
Identification of the type of order 
submitted to the trading venue as per 
the trading venue specifications. 
The maximum price at which a buy 
order can trade or the minimum price 
at which a sell order can trade. 
The spread price for a strategy order. 
It can be negative or positive.  
For orders that do not have a limit 
price or for any unpriced orders this 
field shall be left blank. 
In case of a convertible bond the real 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

For investment firm: 
{LEI} 
For trading venue:{MIC} 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the price is expressed 
as monetary value. 
Where price reported in 
monetary terms, it shall be 
provided in the major 
currency unit. 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in 
case the price is expressed 

EN 

 

237 

EN 

 
 

 

 

10  Price Currency 

11  Price notation 

12  Additional limit 

price 

13  Stop price 

14  Pegged limit price 

price (clean or dirty) used for the 
order shall be reflected in this field. 
If an order is executed, the 
investment firm shall also record the 
price at which the transaction was 
executed at. 
Currency in which the trading price 
is expressed (applicable if the price 
is expressed as monetary value) for 
the financial instrument related to the 
order. 
Indication as to whether the price 
and strike price is expressed in 
monetary value, in percentage or in 
yield.  
Any other limit price which may 
apply to the order. This field shall be 
left blank if not relevant. 

The price that must be reached for 
the order to become active. 
For stop orders triggered by events 
independent of the price of the 
financial instrument, this field shall 
be populated with a stop price equal 
to zero.  
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

The maximum price at which a 
pegged order to buy can trade or the 
minimum price at which a pegged 
order to sell can trade. 
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

as a percentage or yield. 

{CURRENCYCODE_3} 

‘MONE’ – Monetary 
value 
‘PERC’ – Percentage 
‘YIEL’ – Yield 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the price is expressed 
as monetary value. 
Where price reported in 
monetary terms, it shall be 
provided in the major 
currency unit. 
 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in 
case the price is expressed 
as a percentage or yield. 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the price is expressed 
as monetary value. 
Where price reported in 
monetary terms, it shall be 
provided in the major 
currency unit. 
 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in 
case the price is expressed 
as a percentage or yield. 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the price is expressed 
as monetary value. 
Where price reported in 
monetary terms, it shall be 
provided in the major 
currency unit. 
 
{DECIMAL-11/10} in 

EN 

 

238 

EN 

 
 

 

 

15  Remaining quantity 

including hidden 

The total quantity that remains in the 
order book after a partial execution 
or any other event affecting the 
order.  
On a partial fill order event this is the 
total remaining volume after that 
partial execution. On an order entry 
this will equal the initial quantity. 

16  Displayed quantity  The quantity that is visible (as 

opposed to hidden) in the order book. 

17  Traded quantity  

Where there is a partial or full 
execution this field shall be 
populated with the executed quantity. 

18  Minimum 

Acceptable 
Quantity (MAQ) 

This is the minimum acceptable 
quantity for an order to be filled 
which can consist of multiple partial 
executions and is normally only for 
non-persistent order types. 
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

19  Minimum 

executable size 
(MES) 

This is the minimum execution size 
of any individual potential execution.  
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 

20  MES first 

execution only 

Specification as to whether the MES 
is relevant only for the first 
execution. 
Can be left blank if field 19 is not 

EN 

 

239 

EN 

case the price is expressed 
as a percentage or yield. 
{DECIMAL-18/17} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as number of 
units 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 
{DECIMAL-18/17} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as number of 
units 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 
{DECIMAL-18/17} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as number of 
units 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 
 {DECIMAL-18/17} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as number of 
units 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 
{DECIMAL-18/17} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as number of 
units 
{DECIMAL-18/13} in 
case the quantity is 
expressed as monetary or 
nominal value 
'true' 
'false' 

 
 

 

 

21  Passive only 

indicator 

22  Self-Execution 

Prevention 

23  Date and time 
(submission of 
order) 

populated. 
Indicates if the order is set so that it 
enters the order book only if it does 
not result in an immediate execution 
with any visible volume. 
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 
Indicates if the order has been 
entered with self-execution 
prevention criteria so that it would 
not execute with an order on the 
opposite side of the book entered by 
the same member or participant. 
The exact date and time of the 
submission of an order to the trading 
venue or other investment firm. 

24  Date and time 

(receipt of order) 

The exact date and time of any 
message that is transmitted to and 
received from the trading venue or 
other investment firm in relation to 
the order. 

25  Sequence number 

26  New order, order 

modification, order 
cancellation, order 
rejections, partial 
or full execution 

EN 

 

Each and every event listed in the 
field 26 shall be identified by the 
investment firm using a positive 
integer that is in ascending order. 
The sequence number shall be 
unique to each type of event, be 
consistent across all events 
timestamped by the investment firm 
and be persistent for the date that the 
event occurs. 
New order: receipt of a new order by 
the operator of the trading venue. 
 
Triggered: an order which becomes 
executable or, as the case may be, 

240 

EN 

'true' 
'false' 

'true' 
'false' 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT
} 
The number of digits after 
the ‘seconds’ shall be 
determined in accordance 
with the draft technical 
standard on clock 
synchronisation (Table 2 
of the Annex) 
{DATE_TIME_FORMAT
} 
The number of digits after 
the ‘seconds’ shall be 
determined in accordance 
with the draft technical 
standard on clock 
synchronisation (Table 2 
of the Annex) 
{INTEGER-50} 

‘NEWO’ – New order 
 
‘TRIG’ – Triggered 
or 
‘REME’ - Replaced by the 

 
 

 

 

 

EN 

 

member or participant or 
client of the trading venue 
or 
‘REMA’ - Replaced by 
market operations 
(automatic) 
or 
‘REMH’ - Replaced by 
market operations (human 
intervention) 
or 
‘CHME’ - Change of 
status at the initiative of 
the 
Member/Participant/client 
of the trading venue 
or 
‘CHMO’ - Change of 
status due to market 
operations  
or 
‘CAME’ - Cancelled at the 
initiative of the member or 
participant or client of the 
trading venue 
or 
‘CAMO’ -Cancelled by 
market operations 
or 
‘REMO’ - Rejected order 
or 
‘EXPI’ - Expired order 
or 
‘PARF’ - Partially filled 
or 
‘FILL’ - Filled 
or 
{ALPHANUM-4} 
characters not already in 
use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 
 

non-executable upon the realisation 
of a pre-determined condition. 
 
Replaced by the member or 
participant or client of the trading 
venue: where a member or 
participant or client of the trading 
venue decides upon its own initiative 
to change any characteristic(s) of the 
order it has previously entered into 
the order book. 
 
Replaced by market operations 
(automatic): where any 
characteristic(s) of an order is 
changed by the trading venue 
operator’s IT systems. This includes 
where a peg order’s or a trailing stop 
order’s current characteristics are 
changed to reflect how the order is 
located within the order book. 
 
Replaced by market operations 
(human intervention): where any 
characteristic(s) of an order is 
changed by a trading venue 
operator’s staff. This includes where 
a member or participant or client of 
the trading venue has IT issues and 
needs its orders to be cancelled 
urgently. 
 
Change of status at the initiative of 
the Member/Participant/client of the 
trading venue. This includes 
activation, deactivation. 
 
Change of status due to market 
operations.  
 
Cancelled at the initiative of the 
member or participant or client of the 
trading venue; where a member or 
participant or client decides upon its 
own initiative to cancel the order it 
has previously entered. 
 

241 

EN 

 
 

 

 

27  Short selling 

indicator 

28  Waiver indicator 

EN 

 

Cancelled by market operations. This 
includes a protection mechanism 
provided for investment firms 
carrying out a market making 
activity as per Articles 17 and 48 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU. 
 
Rejected order: an order received but 
rejected by the operator of the 
trading venue. 
 
Expired order. where the order is 
removed from the order book upon 
the end of its validity period. 
 
Partially filled: where the order is not 
fully executed so that there remains a 
quantity to be executed. 
 
Filled: where there is no more 
quantity to be executed. 
A short sale concluded by an 
investment firm on its own behalf or 
on behalf of a client, as described in 
Article 12 of RTS on reporting 
obligations under Article 26 of 
MiFIR. 
Where the transaction is for a 
transmitted order that has met the 
conditions for transmission set out in 
Article 5 RTS on reporting 
obligations under Article 26 of 
MiFIR of this Regulation, this field 
shall be populated using the 
information received from the 
transmitting firm.  
This field is only applicable when, 
the instrument is covered by 
Regulation (EU) 236/2012, and the 
seller is the investment firm or a 
client of the investment firm. 
This field shall only be applicable for 
executed orders. 
Indication as to whether the 
transaction was executed under a 
pre-trade waiver in accordance with 

242 

EN 

‘SSHO’ - Short sale with 
no exemption 
‘SSEX’ - Short sale with 
exemption 
‘SELL’ - No short sale 

Populate one or more of 
the following flags: 
‘LRGS’ - Large in scale 

 
 

 

 

29  Routing Strategy 

30  Trading venue 

transaction 
identification code  

31  Validity period 

 

Articles 4 and 9 of Regulation (EU) 
600/2014. 
For all instruments: 
‘LRGS’ = Large in scale 
For equity instruments: 
‘RFPT’ = Reference price 
transaction  
‘NLIQ’ = Negotiated transactions in 
liquid financial instruments 
‘OILQ’ = Negotiated transactions in 
illiquid financial instruments  
‘PRIC’ = Negotiated transactions 
subject to conditions other than the 
current market price of that equity 
financial instrument. 
For non-equity instruments: 
‘SIZE’ = Above specific size 
transaction 
‘ILQD’ = Illiquid instrument 
transaction 
This field shall only be applicable for 
executed orders where the 
transaction was executed under a 
waiver on a trading venue. 
The applicable routing strategy as 
per the trading venue specification. 
This field shall be left blank if not 
relevant. 
Alphanumerical code assigned by the 
trading venue to the transaction 
pursuant to Article 12 of RTS on the 
maintenance of relevant data relating 
to orders in financial instruments. 
This field shall only be applicable for 
executed orders that were executed 
on a trading venue. 
Good-For-Day: the order expires at 
the end of the trading day on which it 
was entered in the order book. 
 
Good-Till-Cancelled: the order will 
remain active in the order book and 
be executable until it is actually 
cancelled.  
 
Good-Till-Time: the order expires at 

‘RFPT’ - Reference price 
‘NLIQ’ - Negotiated 
(liquid) 
‘OILQ’ - Negotiated 
(illiquid) 
‘PRIC’ - Negotiated 
(conditions) 
‘SIZE’ - Above specified 
size 
‘ILQD’ - Illiquid 
instrument 

{ALPHANUM-50} 

{ALPHANUM-52} 

‘DAYV’ – Good-For-Day 
‘GTCV’ – Good-Till-
Cancelled  
‘GTTV’ – Good-Till-Time  
‘GTDV’ – Good-Till-Date  
‘GTSV’ – Good-Till-
Specified Date and Time  
‘GATV’ – Good After 
Time  
‘GADV’ – Good After 

EN 

 

243 

EN 

 
 

 

 

32  Order restriction 

EN 

 

the latest at a pre-determined time 
within the current trading session.  
 
Good-Till-Date: the order expires at 
the end of a specified date.  
 
Good-Till-Specified Date and Time: 
the order expires at a specified date 
and time.  
 
Good After Time: the order is only 
active after a pre-determined time 
within the current trading session. 
 
Good After Date: the order is only 
active from the beginning of a pre-
determined date.  
 
Good After Specified Date and 
Time: the order is only active from a 
pre-determined time on a pre-
determined date.  
 
Immediate-Or-Cancel: an order 
which is executed upon its entering 
into the order book (for the quantity 
that can be executed) and which does 
not remain in the order book for the 
remaining quantity (if any) that has 
not been executed. 
 
Fill-Or-Kill: an order which is 
executed upon its entering into the 
order book provided that it can be 
fully filled: in the event the order can 
only be partially executed, then it is 
automatically rejected and cannot 
therefore be executed. 
 
Other: any additional indications that 
are unique for specific business 
models, trading platforms or 
systems. 
Good For Closing Price Crossing 
Session: when an order qualifies for 
the closing price crossing session. 
Valid For Auction: the order is only 

244 

EN 

Date  
‘GASV’ – Good After 
Specified Date and Time  
‘IOCV’ – Immediate-Or-
Cancel or  
‘FOKV’ – Fill-Or-Kill  
or  
{ALPHANUM-4} 
characters not already in 
use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 

‘SESR’ – Good For 
Closing Price Crossing 
Session 
‘VFAR’ – Valid For 

 
 

 

 

33  Validity period and 

time 

EN 

 

Auction  
‘VFCR’ – Valid For 
Continuous Trading only  
{ALPHANUM-4} 
characters not already in 
use for the trading venue’s 
own classification. 
If multiple types are 
applicable, this field shall 
be populated with multiple 
flags separated by comma. 

{DATE_TIME_FORMAT
} 
The number of digits after 
the ‘seconds’ shall be 
determined in accordance 
with table 2 in the annex 
of the draft technical 
standard on clock 
synchronisation (Table 2 
of the Annex) 

active and can be executed only at 
auction phases (which can be pre-
defined by the member or 
participants or client of the trading 
venue who submitted the order, e.g. 
opening and/or closing auctions 
and/or intraday auction). 
Valid For Continuous Trading only: 
the order is only active during 
continuous trading. 
Other: any additional indications that 
are unique for specific business 
models, trading platforms or 
systems. 
 
This refers to the time stamp 
reflecting the time on which the 
order becomes active or it is 
ultimately removed from the order 
book  
 
Good for day: will be the date of 
entry with the timestamp 
immediately prior to midnight  
 
Good till time: will be the date of 
entry and the time to that specified in 
the order. 
Good till date: Default will be the 
specified date of expiry with the 
timestamp immediately prior to 
midnight. 
 
Good till specified date and time: 
will be the specified date and time of 
expiry 
 
Good after time: will be the date of 
entry and the specified time at which 
the order becomes active. 
 
Good after date: will be the specified 
date with the timestamp immediately 
after midnight  
 
Good after specified date and time: 
Default will be the specified date and 

245 

EN 

 
 

 

 

34  Aggregated order 

35  Additional 
information 
relating to the 
outgoing order 
 

‘true’ 
‘false’ 

Free text 
 

time at which the order becomes 
active. 
 
Good till Cancel: will be the ultimate 
date and time the order is 
automatically removed by market 
operations 
 
Other: timestamp for any additional 
validity type. 
Indicates if the order is an 
aggregated order in accordance with 
Article 2(3) of RTS on the 
maintenance of relevant data relating 
to orders in financial instruments.  
Any instructions, parameters, 
conditions and any other details of 
the order that is: 
transmitted by the investment firm to 
the trading venue and in particular 
those instructions, parameters, 
conditions and details which are 
necessary for the trading venue to 
have a clear understanding of how 
the order has to be handled by it; and  
transmitted by the trading venue to 
the investment firm and in particular 
those instructions, parameters, 
conditions and details which are 
necessary for the investment firm to 
have a clear feedback information on 
how the order has been handled. 

 

 

 

EN 

 

246 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  organisational 
 
