 

RTS 7:
requirements  of  regulated  markets,  multilateral  trading  facilities 
and  organised  trading  facilities  enabling  or  allowing  algorithmic 
trading through their systems 

 

 

  

  

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

 

  

 

EN 

 

247 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying 

organisational requirements of regulated markets, multilateral trading 

facilities and organised trading facilities enabling or allowing algorithmic 

trading through their systems 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive 2011/61/EU1, and in particular Article 48(12)(a),(c) and (g) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

It  is  important  to  adopt  detailed  regulatory  technical  standards  to  ensure  that  trading 
venues that enable algorithmic trading have sufficient systems and controls. 

These  regulatory  technical  standards  should  apply  not  only  to  regulated  markets  but 
also to multilateral trading facilities and organised trading facilities as determined by 
Article 18(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU. 

The impact of technological developments and in particular algorithmic trading is one 
of  the  main  drivers  to  determine  the  capacity  and  arrangements  to  manage  trading 
venues. The risks arising from algorithmic trading can be present in any trading model 
that is supported by electronic means. Therefore, specific organisational requirements 
should apply to regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities and organised trading 
facilities  allowing  for  or  enabling  algorithmic  trading  through  their  systems 
considering  as  such  those  where  algorithmic  trading  may  take  place  as  opposed  to 
trading  venues  which  do  not  permit  algorithmic  trading,  including  trading  systems 
where transactions are arranged through voice negotiation. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

 

248 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

Governance  arrangements, the role  of the compliance  function, staffing requirements 
and  outsourcing  should  be  regulated  as  part  of  these  organisational  requirements  to 
ensure the resilience of electronic trading systems.  

These  regulatory  technical  standards  set  out  the  requirements  to  be  met  by  trading 
venues  with  respect  to  their  systems  allowing  or  enabling  algorithmic  trading  as 
defined  under  Directive  2014/65/EU.  However,  their  specific  implementation  should 
take place in conjunction with a self-assessment to be conducted by each trading venue 
since  not  all  trading  models  present  the  same  risks.  Therefore,  some  organisational 
requirements might not be applicable for certain trading models although their trading 
systems could be supported to a certain extent  by electronic means. In particular, the 
specific  requirements  to  be  set  in  relation  to  request-for-quote  (RFQ)  or  hybrid 
systems  should  be  considered  according  to  the  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  the 
algorithmic  trading  activity  undertaken.  Equally,  more  stringent  requirements  should 
be established by the trading venues where appropriate.  

Risks arising from algorithmic trading should be carefully taken into account, paying 
particular  attention  to  those  that  may  affect  the  core  elements  of  a  trading  system, 
including the hardware, software and associated communication lines used by trading 
venues and members, participants or clients of trading venues (hereinafter ‘members’) 
to  perform  their  activity  and  any  type  of  execution  systems  or  order  management 
systems operated by trading venues, including matching algorithms.  

The specific organisational requirements for trading venues have to be determined by 
means of a robust self-assessment where a number of parameters have to be assessed. 
That self-assessment should include any other circumstances not expressly set out that 
might have an impact on their organisation.  

The minimum period to keep the records of the self-assessment and the due diligence 
of members should be aligned with the general record-keeping obligations established 
in Directive 2014/65/EU. 

(9)

  Where trading venues are required to perform monitoring in real-time, the generation 
of  alerts  following  that  monitoring  should  be  done  as  close  to  instantaneously  as 
technically  possible,  with  a  time  delay  of  no  more  than  five  seconds.  Any  actions 
following  that  monitoring  should  be  undertaken  as  soon  as  possible  assuming  a 
reasonable level of efficiency and of expenditure on systems on the part of the persons 
concerned.   

(10)

  Testing facilities offered by trading venues should not pose risks to orderly trading. To 
that end, trading venues should establish an adequate fair usage policy, ensure a strict 
separation between the testing environment and the production environment or permit 
testing only out of trading hours.  

EN 

 

249 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(11)

(12)

  Conformance testing should ensure that the most basic elements of the system or the 
algorithms  used  by  members  operate  correctly  and  according  to  the  venue’s 
requirements,  including  the  ability  to  interact  as  expected  with  the  trading  venue’s 
matching  logic  and  the  adequate  processing  of  data  flows  to  and  from  the  trading 
venue.  Testing  against  disorderly  trading  conditions  should  be  designed  as  to 
specifically  address  the  reaction  of  the  algorithm  or  strategy  to  conditions  that  may 
create a disorderly market.  

  Where  trading  venues  offer  arrangements  to  test  algorithms  by  offering  testing 
symbols,  their  obligation  to  provide  facilities  to  test  against  disorderly  trading 
conditions  should be deemed fulfilled.  In order to  enable members to  effectively  use 
such 
the  specifications  and 
characteristics  of  the  testing  symbols  to  the  same  level  of  detail  made  publicly 
available for real life production contracts.  

trading  venues  should  publish 

testing  symbols, 

(13)

  Trading venues should be subject to an obligation to provide means to facilitate testing 
against  disorderly  trading  conditions.  However,  such  an  obligation  should  not  be 
construed as requiring their members to use those means. It should be considered as a 
sufficient  guarantee  if  trading  venues  receive  a  declaration  from  their  members 
confirming  that  such  testing  has  taken  place  and  the  means  used  for  that  testing,  but 
they  are  not  obliged  to  validate  the  adequacy  of  those  means  or  the  outcome  of  that 
testing.  

(14)

  Trading venues and their members have to be adequately equipped by means of a kill 
functionality  to  react  in  case  unexpected  circumstances  arise.  as  an  emergency 
measure to cancel unexecuted orders.  

(15)

  The provision of direct electronic access (DEA) service to an indeterminate number of 
persons may pose a risk to  the provider of that service and also  to  the resilience and 
capacity of the trading venue where the orders are sent. To address such risks, where 
sub-delegation of DEA is permitted, the DEA provider should be able to identify the 
different order flows from the beneficiaries of sub-delegation.  

(16)

  Where sponsored access is permitted by a trading venue, prospective sponsored access 
clients  should  be  subject  to  a  process  of  authorization  by  the  trading  venue.  Trading 
venues  may  also  decide  that  the  provision  of  direct  market  access  services  by  their 
members is subject to authorisation.  

(17)

  Trading venues should specify the requirements to be met by their members to provide 
DEA and determine the minimum standards to be met by prospective DEA clients in 
the due diligence process. Those requirements and standards should be adapted to the 
risks  posed  by  the  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  their  expected  trading,  and  the 
service  being  provided.  In  particular,  it  should  include  an  assessment  of  the  level  of 
expected trading, the order volume and the type of connection offered. 

EN 

 

250 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(18)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014 applies from 3 January 2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this 
Regulation should apply from the same date. 

(19)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(20)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council2, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

GENERAL ORGANISATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TRADING VENUES 
ENABLING OR ALLOWING ALGORITHMIC TRADING THROUGH THEIR 

CHAPTER I 

SYSTEMS  

Article 1 

(Article 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Subject matter and scope 

1.  This  Regulation  lays  down  detailed  rules  for  the  organisational  requirements  of  the 
trading  venues’  systems  allowing  or  enabling  algorithmic  trading,  in  relation  to  their 
resilience  and  capacity,  requirements  on  trading  venues  to  ensure  appropriate  testing  of 
algorithms  and to  the controls  concerning  DEA  pursuant  to  Article 48(12)(a), (c) and  (g) of 
Directive 2014/65/EU.  

2.  For the purposes of this Regulation, it is considered that a trading venue allows or enables 
algorithmic  trading  where  order  submission  and  order  matching  is  facilitated  by  electronic 
means.  

                                                 

2    Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

 

251 

EN 

 
 

 

 

3.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Regulation,  any  arrangements  or  systems  that  enable  or  allow 
algorithmic trading shall be considered as ‘algorithmic trading systems’. 

 

Article 2 

(Article 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Organisational requirements for trading venues and the proportionality principle 

1.  Before the deployment of a trading system and at least once a year, trading venues shall 
carry  out  a  self-assessment  of  their  degree  of  compliance  with  Article  48  of  Directive 
2014/65/EU, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of their business. The self-
assessment shall include an analysis of all parameters set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 

2.  Trading venues shall keep a record of their self-assessment for at least five years.  

 

Article 3 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Governance 

1.  As part of their overall governance and decision making framework, trading venues shall 
establish  and  monitor  their  trading  systems  through  a  clear  and  formalised  governance 
arrangement, setting out:  

(a)  analysis  of  technical,  risk  and  compliance  issues  when  taking  key  decisions;  in 
particular, the governance and decision making framework shall embed compliance and 
risk management principles;  

(b)  existence  of  clear  lines  of  accountability,  including  procedures  to  approve  the 
development,  deployment  and  subsequent  updates  of  their  trading  systems  and  the 
resolution of problems identified through monitoring the trading systems; 

(c)  establishment  and  maintenance  of  procedures  and  processes  for  the  communication  of 
information  which  ensure that relevant  issues can be escalated and instructions can be 
implemented in an efficient and timely manner;  

(d)  segregation of functions to ensure effective supervision of the venue’s compliance with 

their legal and regulatory obligations.  

2.  The  management  body  or  the  senior  management  of  trading  venues  shall  bear 
responsibility for:  

EN 

 

252 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 

(a)  the self-assessment of compliance with Article 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU;  

(b)  measures  planned  to  expand  the  capacity  of  the  trading  venue  following  a  historical 

peak of messages in accordance with the provision on the trading venue’s capacity;  

(c)  actions  planned  to  remedy  any  material  shortcomings  detected  in  the  course  of  their 
monitoring activity and after the periodic review of the performance and capacity of the 
trading systems.  

Article 4 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Compliance function within the governance arrangements 

1.  Trading venues shall ensure that their compliance function is responsible for:  

(a)  providing clarity about the trading venues’ legal and regulatory obligations with respect 

to algorithmic trading;  

(b)  developing  and  maintaining  the  policies  and  procedures  to  ensure  that  the  algorithmic 

trading systems comply with those obligations.  

2.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  their  compliance  staff  has  at  least  a  general 
understanding of the way  in  which  algorithmic trading  systems  and algorithms operate.  The 
compliance function shall be in continuous contact with persons who have detailed technical 
knowledge  of  the  venue’s  algorithmic  trading  systems  or  algorithms.  Trading  venues  shall 
also  enable  compliance  staff  to  have,  at  all  times,  access  to  the  kill  functionality  or  to  the 
persons who can use the kill functionality and to those who are responsible for the algorithmic 
trading system. 

3.  Where  the  compliance  function,  or  elements  thereof,  is  outsourced  to  an  external 
compliance consultant, trading venues shall engage with, and provide information and access 
to  the  external  compliance  consultant  as  it  would  with  its  own  compliance  staff.  Trading 
venues shall enter into an agreement with such compliance consultants, ensuring that: 

(a)  data privacy is guaranteed;  

(b)  auditing of the compliance function by internal and external auditors or by the venue’s 

competent authority is not hindered. 

 

EN 

 

Article 5 

253 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Staffing 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  employ  an  adequate  number  of  staff  with  the  necessary  skills  to 
manage their algorithmic trading systems and trading algorithms and sufficient knowledge of: 

(a)  relevant trading systems and algorithms;  

(b)  the monitoring and testing of such systems and algorithms;  

(c)  the types of trading undertaken by their members; and  

(d)  the  trading  venue’s  legal  and  regulatory  obligations  and  in  particular  the  requirements 
imposed  upon  the  relevant  trading  venues  and  all  other  regulatory  requirements 
established by Articles 48 and 49 of Directive 2014/65/EU. 

2.  Trading venues shall define the skills necessary to comply with the obligation set out in 
paragraph  1.  These  skills  shall  be  acquired  through  recruitment  or  through  training  of 
appropriate  staff  and  shall  be  evaluated  periodically  to  ensure  that  their  skills  remain  up-to-
date. 

Initial and ongoing training shall be tailored to the experience and responsibilities of the 

3. 
staff, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of the staff activity.  

4.  The  obligation  in  paragraph  1  includes  employing  staff  with  sufficient  seniority  to 
represent  their  functions  effectively  within  the  trading  venue,  offering  appropriate  challenge 
as necessary within the governance framework.  

 

Article 6 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Outsourcing 

1.  Trading  venues  outsourcing  all  or  part  of  their  operational  functions  in  relation  to  the 
systems allowing or enabling algorithmic trading shall ensure that:  

(a)  the outsourcing agreement exclusively relates to operational functions and does not alter 

the responsibilities of the senior management and the management body;  

(b)  the  relationship  and  obligations  of  the  trading  venue  towards  its  members,    competent 
authorities, or any third parties, such as clients of data feed services under the terms of 
Directive 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 are not altered;  

EN 

 

254 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  they still meet the requirements that the trading venue must comply with in order to be 

authorised in accordance with Title III of Directive 2014/65/EU.  

2.  For the purposes of point (a) in paragraph 1, operational functions shall include all direct 
activities  related  to  the  performance  and  surveillance  of  the  trading  systems  supporting  the 
following elements:  

(a)  upstream  connectivity,  order  submission  capacity,  throttling  capacities  and  ability  to 

balance customer order entrance through different gateways;  

(b)  trading engine to match orders;  

(c)  downstream connectivity, order and transaction edit and any other type of market data 

feed;  

(d)  infrastructure to monitor the performance of the abovementioned elements. 

3.  Trading  venues  shall  document  the  selection  process  and  take  the  necessary  steps  to 
ensure that the following conditions are at all times satisfied:  

(a)  the service provider has  the ability, capacity,  and any authorisation required by law to 

perform the outsourced functions, services or activities reliably and professionally;  

(b)  the  service  provider  properly  supervises  the  carrying  out  of  the  outsourced  functions, 

and adequately manage the risks associated with the outsourcing arrangement;  

(c)  the service provider carries out  the outsourced services effectively, and to  this end the 
trading venue must establish methods for assessing the standard of performance of the 
service  provider,  including  metrics  to  measure  the  service  provided  and  specify  the 
requirements that shall be met;  

(d)  the trading venue retains the necessary expertise to  supervise the  outsourced  functions 

effectively and manage the risks associated with the outsourcing arrangement; 

(e)  the  trading  venue  retains  the  ability  to  take  appropriate  action  if  it  appears  that  the 
service  provider  may  not  be  carrying  out  the  functions  effectively  and  in  compliance 
with applicable laws and regulatory requirements;  

(f)  the  service  provider  discloses  to  the  trading  venue  any  development  that  may  have  a 
material  impact  on  its  ability  to  carry  out  the  outsourced  functions  effectively  and  in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements;  

(g)  the  trading  venue  is  able  to  terminate  the  outsourcing  arrangement  where  necessary 

without detriment to the continuity and quality of its services to clients;  

EN 

 

255 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(h)  the  service  provider  cooperates  with  the  competent  authorities  of  the  trading  venue  in 

connection with the outsourced activities;  

(i) 

(j) 

the trading venue has effective access to data related to the outsourced activities, as well 
as to the business premises of the service provider and auditors of the trading venue and 
relevant  competent  authorities  have  effective  access  to  data  related  to  the  outsourced 
activities;  

the  trading  venue  sets  out  requirements  to  be  met  by  the  service  providers  to  protect 
confidential  information  relating  to  the  trading  venue  and  its  members,  participants  or 
clients, and in particular the venue’s proprietary information and software;  

(k)  the service provider protects any confidential information relating to the trading venue 

and its members, and in particular the venue’s proprietary information and software;  

(l) 

the  trading  venue  and  the  service  provider  establish,  implement  and  maintain  a 
contingency  plan  for  disaster  recovery  and  periodic  testing  of  backup  facilities,  where 
that  is  necessary  having  regard  to  the  function,  service  or  activity  that  has  been 
outsourced;  

(m) the  outsourcing  contract  specifies  the  obligations  of  the  service  provider  in  case  it 

cannot provide its services, including the provision of a substituting firm;  

(n)  the  trading  venue  has  access  to  information  in  relation  to  the  business  continuity  or 

disaster recovery arrangements of the entity providing the service.  

4.  Service  providers  shall  only  be  contracted  by  trading  venues  on  the  basis  of  a  binding 
written agreement setting out:  

(a)  the assignment of rights and obligations between service provider and trading venue;  

(b)  a clear description of:  

(i)  the operational functions that are outsourced;  

(ii)  the  access  of  the  outsourcing  trading  venue  to  the  books  and  records  of  the 

service provider;  

(iii) the procedure to identify and address potential conflicts of interest;  

(iv) the responsibility assumed by each party;  

(v)  the procedure for the amendment and termination of the agreement.  

EN 

 

256 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  the means to ensure that both the trading venue and the service provider facilitate in any 

way necessary the exercise by the competent authority of its supervisory powers.  

5.  Trading venues shall report to their competent authorities their intention to outsource any 
operational function in any of the following cases:  

(a)  the service provider is providing the same service to other trading venues;  

(b)  critical operational functions would be outsourced, considering as such those necessary 
for  business  continuation.  In  this  case,  trading  venues  shall  need  prior  authorisation 
from their competent authority.  

6.  For the purposes of point  (b) in  paragraph 5, critical  operational  functions shall  include 
those referred to in Article 47(1)(b), (c) and (e) of Directive 2014/65/EU. 

7.  Trading  venues  shall  inform  their  competent  authorities  of  any  outsourcing  agreements 
not  covered  by  the  previous  paragraph  immediately  after  the  signature  of  the  written 
agreement.  

 

CHAPTER II 

CAPACITY AND RESILIENCE OF TRADING VENUES  

Article 7 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Due diligence for members of trading venues 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  have  pre-defined  standards  specifically  relevant  to  their  trading 
model  which  cover  the  arrangements  of  the  members  for  using  the  electronic  order 
submission systems of the trading venue. The standards shall cover at least:  

(a)  pre-trade  controls  on  price,  volume,  value  and  usage  of  the  system  and  post-trade 

controls on their trading activities;  

(b)  qualification of staff in key positions within the members;  

(c)  technical and functional conformance testing;  

(d)  policy of use of the kill functionality;  

(e)  whether  the  member  may  provide  direct  electronic  access  to  its  own  clients  and  if  so, 

the conditions applicable to those clients.  

EN 

 

257 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  Trading venues shall undertake a due diligence assessment of their prospective members 
against the standards referred to in paragraph 1.  

3.  Trading venues shall conduct a risk-based assessment of the compliance of their members 
with  the  standards  in  paragraph  1  and  check  whether  their  members  remain  registered  as 
investment  firms  at  least  once  a  year.  The  risk-based  assessment  shall  take  into  account  the 
scale  and  potential  impact  of  trading  undertaken  by  a  member  as  well  as  the  time  elapsed 
since the member's last review. 

4.  Trading venues shall have the ability to undertake additional revisions of their members’ 
compliance with their standards following the yearly risk-based assessment. 

5.  Trading venues shall have in  place predefined criteria and procedures making  reference 
to the sanctions they may impose on a non-compliant member, including suspending access to 
the trading venue and losing the membership.  

6.  Trading venues shall maintain, for at least five years, records of:  

(a)  the documentation setting out the criteria and procedures for the due diligence activity;  

(b)  the records of the initial due diligence of their members; 

(c)  the records of the annual risk-based assessment of their members;  

(d)  the list of members that failed the annual risk-based assessment.  

 

Article 8 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Testing of the trading systems 

1.  Trading venues shall, prior to deploying or updating a trading system, make use of clearly 
delineated development and testing methodologies which ensure at least that: 

(a)  the trading system does not behave in an unintended manner; 

(b)  the  operation  of  the  trading  system  is  compatible  with  the  trading  venue’s  obligations 
under Directive 2014/65/EU and any other relevant Union or national law in particular 
that  the  compliance  and  risk  management  controls  embedded  in  the  systems  work  as 
intended, including generating error reports automatically;  

(c)  the trading system can continue to work effectively in case of significant increase of the 

number of messages managed by the system.  

EN 

 

258 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  Trading  venues  shall  be  able  to  demonstrate  at  all  times  that  they  have  taken  all 
reasonable steps to avoid that their trading systems contribute to disorderly trading conditions.  

 

Article 9 

(Article 48(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Conformance testing 

1.  Trading venues shall require their members to undertake conformance testing prior to the 
deployment or substantial update of:  

(a)  the access to the trading venue’s system;  

(b)  the member’s trading system, trading algorithm or trading strategy. 

2.  The conformance testing shall ensure that the basic functioning of the member’s trading 
system,  algorithm  and  strategy  complies  with  the  trading  venue’s  standards  including  the 
ability  of  the  system  or  algorithm  to  interact  as  expected  with  the  trading  venue’s  matching 
logic and the adequate processing of the data flows from and to the trading venue.  

3.  The conformance testing shall verify the functioning of at least the following:  

(a)  the  most  basic  functionalities  such  as  submission,  modification  or  cancellation  of  an 
order or an indication of interest, static and market data downloads and all business data 
flows;  

(b)  the  connectivity,  including  the  cancel  on  disconnect  command,  market  data  feed  loss 
and  throttles,  recovery  including  cold  intra-day  starts  and  the  handling  of  suspended 
instruments or stale market data.  

4.  Trading  venues  shall  provide  a  conformance  testing  environment  to  their  actual  or 
prospective members which fulfils all of the following requirements:  

(a)  is accessible in equivalent conditions to the rest of the trading venue’s testing services;  

(b)  provides  a  list  of  financial  instruments  available  for  testing  which  is  representative  of 

the ones available in the live environment covering every class of instruments;  

(c)  is available during general market hours or on a pre-scheduled periodic basis if outside 

market hours;  

(d)  is supported by knowledgeable staff.  

EN 

 

259 

EN 

 
 

 

 

5.  Trading  venues  shall  deliver  a  report  with  the  outcome  of  the  conformance  testing 
exclusively to the actual or prospective member.  

6.  Trading  venues  shall  require  their  actual  or  prospective  members  to  use  their 
conformance testing facilities notwithstanding  any  additional testing methods that the actual 
or prospective member may use.  

7.  Trading venues shall ensure an  effective separation of the testing environment from  the 
production  environment  for  the  tests  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.  Where  it  is  not  possible  to 
ensure such separation, testing shall take place out of trading hours.  

 

Article 10 

(Article 48(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Testing the members’ algorithms to avoid disorderly trading conditions 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  require  their  members  to  certify  that  the  algorithms  they  deploy 
have been tested to avoid creating or contributing to disorderly trading conditions prior to the 
deployment  or  substantial  update  of  a  trading  algorithm  or  trading  strategy  and  explain  the 
means used for that testing.  

2.  Trading venues shall not be obliged to validate the outcome of those tests. 

3.  Trading  venues  shall  provide  their  members  with  access  to  an  environment  which  can 
consist of any of the following:  

(a)  simulation  facilities  which  reproduce  as  realistically  as  possible  the  live  production 
environment, 
the 
functionalities, protocols and structure that allow members to  test a range of scenarios 
that they consider suitable to their activity;  

trading  conditions,  and  which  provide 

including  disorderly 

(b)  testing symbols as defined and maintained by the trading venue.  

4.  Trading venues shall ensure an  effective separation of the testing environment from  the 
production  environment  for  the  tests  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.  Where  it  is  not  possible  to 
ensure such separation, testing shall take place out of trading hours.  

 

EN 

 

Article 11 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Trading venues’ capacity 

260 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  their  trading  systems  have  sufficient  capacity  to 
accommodate at least twice their historical peak of messages expressed as the highest number 
of messages per second recorded on that system during the previous five years.  

2.  Messages to be considered shall include: 

(a)  any input, including order, modification or cancellation of an order,  

(b)  any output, including the system’s response to an input, display of order book data and 
dissemination  of  post  trade  flow  that  implies  independent  use  of  trading  system’s 
capacity. 

3.  A trading system shall be deemed to have exceeded its capacity when the elements of the 
trading  system  can  no  longer  perform  their  functions  without  systems  failures,  outages  or 
errors in matching transactions.   

4.  The elements of a trading system to be considered for the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 3 
shall be those supporting the following activities:  

(a)  upstream  connectivity,  order  submission  capacity,  throttling  capacities  and  ability  to 

balance customer order entrance through different gateways;  

(b)  trading engine which enables the trading venue matching orders at an adequate latency;  

(c)  downstream connectivity, order and transaction edit and any other type of market data 

feed;  

(d)  infrastructure to monitor the performance the abovementioned elements. 

5.  Trading  venues  shall  assess  whether  the  capacity  of  their  trading  systems  remains 
adequate  when  the  number  of  messages  has  exceeded  the  historical  peak.  After  each 
assessment,  trading  venues  shall  inform  their  competent  authority  about  any  measures 
planned  to  expand  their  capacity  or  add  new  capabilities  together  with  the  implementation 
timeframe of such measures.    

6.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  their  systems  are  able  to  cope  with  the  rising  message 
flow  without  material  degradation  of  their  systems  performance.  In  particular,  the  design  of 
the  trading  system  shall  enable  its  capacity  to  be  expanded  within  a  reasonable  timeframe 
whenever necessary.  

7.  Trading  venues  shall  immediately  make  public  and  report  to  their  competent  authority 
and  members  any  severe  trading  interruption  not  due  to  market  volatility  and  any  other 
material connectivity disruptions.  

 

EN 

 

261 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Article 12 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

General monitoring obligations 

1.  Trading venues shall ensure that their algorithmic trading systems are at all times adapted 
to  the  business  which  takes  place  through  them  and  are  robust  enough  to  ensure  continuity 
and  regularity  in  the  performance  of  the  markets  operated,  regardless  of  the  trading  model 
used.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  their  algorithmic  trading  systems  are  monitored  and 
reviewed  on  an  on-going  basis  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  risks  and  challenges  posed  by 
technological developments are promptly addressed.  

2.  Trading venues shall conduct real time monitoring in relation to the following minimum 
obligations:  

(a)  performance and capacity of the systems referred to in Article 11(4);  

(b)  orders  sent  by  their  members  at  an  individual  and  an  aggregated  basis;  in  particular, 
trading  venues  shall  operate  throttling  limits  and  monitor  the  concentration  flow  of 
orders to detect potential threats to the orderly functioning of the market.   

3.  Real-time alerts shall be generated within five seconds of the relevant event. 

 

Article 13 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

On-going monitoring  

1.  Trading venues shall be able to demonstrate at all times to their competent authority that 
they monitor in real-time the performance and degree of usage of the elements of their trading 
systems referred to in Article 11(4) in relation to at least the following parameters:  

(a)  percentage of the maximum message capacity utilised per second;  

(b)  total number of messages managed by the trading system broken down per element of 

the system including:  

(i)  number of messages received per second;  

(ii)  number of messages sent per second;  

(iii) number of messages rejected by the system per second.  

EN 

 

262 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  time delay between receiving a message in any outer gateway of the trading system and 
sending  a  related  message  from  the  same  gateway  after  the  matching  engine  has 
processed the original message;  

(d)  performance of the matching engine.  

2.  Trading venues shall take all appropriate action in relation to any issues identified in the 
trading system as soon as reasonably possible in order of priority and, if necessary, be able to 
adjust, wind down, or shut down the trading system.  

 

Article 14 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Periodic review of the systems performance and capacity  

1.  Trading venues shall, in the context of their annual compliance review with Article 48 of 
Directive  2014/65/EU,  evaluate  the  performance  of  their  algorithmic  trading  systems,  and 
associated process for governance, accountability, sign-off and associated business continuity 
arrangements. In particular, the on-going stress testing shall identify how hardware, software 
and  communications  respond  to  potential  threats,  covering  all  trading  phases,  trading 
segments and type of instruments to identify systems or parts of the system with tolerance or 
no tolerance to the adverse scenarios.  

2.  Trading  venues  shall  act  on  the  basis  of  these  reviews  and  evaluations  to  promptly 
remedy any deficiencies identified.  

3.  As part of the review programme, trading venues shall run stress tests appropriate to the 
nature, scale and complexity of their business, where the design of adverse scenarios shall at 
least contemplate the functioning of the system under:  

(a)  the highest number of messages managed by the system during the previous five years 

and successive multipliers beyond that level;  

(b)  unexpected behaviour of critical constituent elements of the trading system, associated 

systems and communication lines;  

(c)  random  combination  of  stressed  and  normal  market  conditions  and  unexpected 

behaviour of critical constituent elements. 

4.  For  these  purposes,  the  scenario  shall  only  be  evaluated  by  simulating  the  members’ 
activities with the given member connectivity setup.  

5.  The review and evaluation process shall:  

EN 

 

263 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  be  conducted  by  an  independent  assessor  or  by  another  department  within  the  trading 
venue which is not the same that holds the responsibility for the function that is being 
reviewed;  

(b)  result in actions to promptly remedy any identified deficiencies, including measures to 

address shortcomings in the periodic stress testing.  

6.  Trading venues shall keep a record of their self-assessment for at least five years. 

 

Article 15 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Business continuity arrangements 

1.  Trading venues shall be able to demonstrate at all times that their systems have sufficient 
stability by having effective business continuity arrangements to address disruptive incidents 
including system failures.  

2.  The  business  continuity  arrangements  shall  ensure  a  timely  resumption  of  trading, 
targeting  a  recovery  time  of  no  later  than  two  hours  and  a  recovery  point  objective  close  to 
zero.  The  recovery  point  objective  determines  the  maximum  tolerable  amount  of  data  that 
might be lost from any IT service.  

 

Article 16 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Business continuity plan 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  establish  a  business  continuity  plan  and  implement  effective 
business continuity arrangements in relation to their trading systems. The business continuity 
plan shall be framed in the context of the trading venue’s overall risk management policy and 
shall  include  the  procedures  and  arrangements  identified  to  address  and  manage  disruptive 
incidents.  

2.  The business continuity plan shall provide for the following minimum content: 

(a)  a  range  of  possible  adverse  scenarios  including  at  least  the  unavailability  of  systems, 
staff,  work  space,  external  suppliers/dependencies  and  critical  data  and  documents 
through loss or alteration;  

(b)  the governance and procedures to be followed in case of a disruptive event; 

EN 

 

264 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  the recovery time objective and the recovery point objective;  

(d)  the operation of back-up and disaster recovery arrangements as well as the procedures 

for moving to, and operating the trading system from a back-up site; 

(e)  back-up  of  critical  business  data  including  up-to-date  information  of  the  necessary 
contacts  to  ensure  communication  inside  the  trading  venue  and  between  the  trading 
venue  and  the  members  and  between  the  trading  venue  and  clearing  and  settlement 
infrastructures; 

(f)  staff training on the operation of the business continuity arrangements; 

(g)  assignation of individual´s roles and establishment of a specific security operations team 

ready to react immediately after a system disruption; 

(h)  an  on-going  programme  for  testing,  evaluation  and  review  of  the  arrangements 
including procedures for modification of the arrangements in light of the results of that 
programme.  

3.  Clock synchronisation after a disruptive incident shall be included in business continuity 
scenarios. 

4.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  a  business  continuity  plan  is  supported  by  an  impact 
assessment, subject to periodic revision, in which the risks and consequences  of a disruption 
shall  be  identified.  Any  decision  by  the  trading  venue  not  to  take  into  account  a  specificly 
known potential unavailability in the business continuity plan shall be adequately documented 
and explicitly signed-off by the  management body of the trading venue.  

5.  Trading venues shall ensure that their senior management:  

(a)  establishes clear objectives and strategies in terms of business continuity;  

(b)  allocates adequate human, technological and financial resources to pursue the objectives 

and strategies under point (a);  

(c)  approves  the  business  continuity  plan  and  any  amendments  thereof  necessary  as  a 

consequence of organizational, technological and legal changes;  

(d)  is  informed,  at  least  on  a  yearly  basis,  on  the  outcome  of  the  controls  and  audits 

performed on the adequacy of the business continuity plan;  

(e)  establishes a business continuity function within the organisation.  

EN 

 

265 

EN 

 
 

 

 

6.  The  business  continuity  plan  shall  include  procedures  to  address  any  disruptions  of 
outsourced  critical  services,  including  circumstances  where  the  supplying  firm’s  services 
become unavailable.  

 

Article 17 

(Article 48(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Periodic review of business continuity arrangements 

1.  Trading venues shall, in the context of their annual compliance review with Article 48 of 
Directive 2014/65/EU, test on the basis of scenarios as  realistic as possible, the operation of 
the  business  continuity  plan,  verifying  the  capability  of  the  trading  venue  to  recover  from 
incidents under predefined objectives in terms of timely resumption of trading. 

2.  Trading  venues  shall  make  sure  that  a  review  by  an  independent  function  of  their 
business continuity plan and arrangements is foreseen, where necessary, in light of the results 
of the testing activity. The results of the testing activity shall be documented in writing, stored 
and  submitted  to  the  trading  venue’s  senior  management  as  well  as  to  the  operating  units 
involved in  the business continuity plan.  For the purposes of this paragraph, an independent 
function  shall  be  either  an  independent  assessor  or  another  department  within  the  trading 
venue  which  is  not  the  same  that  holds  the  responsibility  for  the  function  that  is  being 
reviewed. 

3.  Trading venues shall ensure that testing of the business continuity plan does not interfere 
with normal trading activity.  

 

Article 18 

(Article 48 (4), (5) and (6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Prevention of disorderly trading conditions 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  have  at  least  the  following  arrangements  to  prevent  disorderly 
trading and breaches of capacity limits:  

(a)  limits per member on the number of orders sent  per second (throttle limits);  

(b)  mechanisms to manage volatility;  

(c)  pre-trade controls.  

2.  Trading venues shall be able to: 

EN 

 

266 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(a)  request  information  from  any  member  or  user  of  sponsored  access  on  their 

organisational requirements and trading controls;  

(b)  suspend  the  access  of  a  member  or  a  trader’s  ID  to  the  trading  system  at  the  trading 
venue’s own initiative or at the request of that member, a clearing member, the CCP in 
the pre-defined cases foreseen in the CCP’s governing rules or the competent authority;  

(c)  operate  a  kill  functionality  to  cancel  unexecuted  orders  submitted  by  a  member  or 

sponsored access client under the following circumstances:  

(i)  upon request of the member or sponsored access client that is technically unable 

to delete its own orders;  

(ii)  when the order book is corrupted by erroneous duplicated orders;  

(iii) following a suspension initiated either by the market operator or the competent 

authority.  

(d)  cancel or revoke transactions in case of malfunction of the trading venue’s mechanisms 

to manage volatility or of the trading system;  

(e)  balance order entrance among their different gateways, if such an architecture is used by 

the trading venue to avoid collapses. 

3.  Trading venues shall set up and maintain policies and arrangements in respect of:  

(a)  mechanisms to manage volatility;  

(b)  pre-trade and post-trade controls used by the venue and pre-trade and post-trade controls 

necessary for their members to access the market; 

(c)  members’ obligation to operate their own kill functionality;  

(d)  information requirements for members;  

(e)  suspension of access;  

(f)  cancellation policy in relation to orders and transactions including, at least:  

(i)  timing;  

(ii)  procedures;  

(iii) reporting and transparency obligations;  

(iv) dispute resolution procedures;  

EN 

 

267 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(v)  measures to minimise erroneous trades; 

(g)  order throttling arrangements including at least:  

(i)  number of orders per second on pre-defined time intervals;  

(ii)  equal-treatment  policy  among  members  unless  they  are  throttled  on  an 

individual basis;  

(iii) measures to be adopted following a throttling event.  

4.  Trading  venues  shall  make  public  their  general  policies  and  arrangements  set  out  in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 above. That obligation shall not affect the specific number of orders per 
second  on  pre-defined  time  intervals  and  the  specific  parameters  of  their  mechanisms  to 
manage volatility.   

5.  Trading  venues  shall  maintain  full  records  of  their  policies  and  arrangements  under 
paragraph 3 for at least five years.  

 

Article 19 

(Article 48(5) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Mechanisms to manage volatility 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  mechanisms  to  automatically  halt  or 
constrain trading are operational at all times during trading hours.  

2.  Trading venues shall ensure:  

(a)  mechanisms  to  halt  or  constrain  trading  are  tested  before  implementation  and 
periodically  thereafter  when  the  capacity  and  performance  of  trading  systems  is 
reviewed;  

(b)  specific IT and human resources are allocated to deal with the design, maintenance and 

monitoring of the mechanisms implemented to halt or constrain trading;  

(c)  mechanisms to manage market volatility are continuously monitored.  

3.  Trading venues shall maintain records of the rules and parameters of the mechanisms to 
manage volatility  and any  changes thereof, as well as records of the operation, management 
and upgrading of those mechanisms.  

EN 

 

268 

EN 

 
 

 

 

4.  Trading  venues  shall  ensure  that  their  rules  for  the  mechanisms  to  manage  volatility 
include procedures to manage situations where the parameters have to be manually overridden 
to ensure orderly trading.  

 

Article 20 

(Article 48(4) and (6) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Pre-trade and post-trade controls 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  operate  at  least  the  following  pre-trade  controls  adapted  for  each 
financial instruments traded on them:  

(a)  price collars, which automatically block orders that do not meet pre-set price parameters 

on an order-by-order basis; 

(b)  maximum order value, which prevents orders with uncommonly large order values from 

entering the order book by reference to notional values per financial instrument;  

(c)  maximum  order  volume,  which  prevents  orders  with  an  uncommonly  large  order  size 

from entering the order book. 

2.  Those controls shall ensure that:  

(a)  their automated application and monitoring with  a delay of no more than five seconds 
with  the  ability  to  readjust  the  limits  even  during  the  trading  session  and  in  all  its 
phases;  

(b)  an order is rejected once a limit is breached;  

(c)  mechanisms are in place to authorise orders above the pre-set limits upon request from 

the member concerned.  

3.  Trading venues may establish post-trade controls that they deem appropriate on the basis 
of a risk assessment of their members’ activity.  

 

EN 

 

Article 21 

(Article 48 (7) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Pre-determination of the conditions to provide direct electronic access 

269 

EN 

 
 

 

 

1.  Trading venues permitting DEA through their systems shall set out and make public the 
rules  and  conditions  pursuant  to  which  their  members  [DEA  providers]  may  provide  DEA 
service to their own clients [DEA clients].  

2.  Those rules and conditions shall at least cover:  

(a)  the  specific  requirements  set  out  in  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  specifying  the 
organisational  requirements  of  investment  firms  engaged  in  algorithmic  trading, 
providing  direct  electronic  access  and  acting  as  general  clearing  members  for  the 
provision of DEA;  

(b)  the  minimum  standards  to  be  demonstrated  by  any  prospective  DEA  client  at  the  due 
diligence  process  of  the  DEA  provider  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  set  out  in 
Commission  Delegated  Regulation  specifying  the  organisational  requirements  of 
investment firms engaged in algorithmic trading, providing direct electronic access and 
acting as general clearing members.   

 

Article 22 

(Article 48 (7) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Specific requirements for trading venues permitting Sponsored Access 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  subject  the  provision  of  Sponsored  Access  services  to  their 
authorisation and shall require firms accessing through sponsored access at least the same pre-
trade risk limits and controls as to their members.  

2.  Trading venues shall ensure that sponsored access providers are at  all times exclusively 
entitled  to  set  or  modify  the  parameters  or  limits  that  apply  to  the  pre-trade  and  post-trade 
controls over the order flow of their sponsored access clients. 

3.  Trading venues shall be able to suspend or withdraw the provision of sponsored access to 
those  clients  who  have  infringed  Directive  2014/65/EU,  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014, 
Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 or the trading venue’s internal rules.  

 

Article 23 

(Article 48 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Security and limits to access 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  have  in  place  procedures  and  arrangements  for  physical  and 
electronic security designed to protect their systems from misuse or unauthorised access and 
to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  data  that  is  part  of  or  passes  through  their  systems,  including 

EN 

 

270 

EN 

 
 

 

 

arrangements that allows the prevention and minimization of the risks of attacks against the 
information systems as defined in Article 2 of Directive 2013/40/EU. 

In  particular,  trading  venues  shall  set  up  and  maintain  measures  and  arrangements  to 

2. 
promptly identify and manage the risks related to: 

(a)  any unauthorised access to the whole or to any part of their trading system;  

(b)  system interferences that seriously hinder or interrupt the functioning of an information 
system  by  inputting  computer  data,  by  transmitting,  damaging,  deleting,  deteriorating, 
altering or suppressing such data, or by rendering such data inaccessible;  

(c)  data  interferences  that  delete,  damage,  deteriorate,  alter  or  suppress  computer  data  on 
the  information  system,  or  render  such  data  inaccessible;  interceptions,  by  technical 
means, of non-public transmissions of computer data to, from or within an information 
system, including electromagnetic emissions from an information system carrying such 
computer data. 

3.  Trading venues shall also establish and maintain arrangements for physical and electronic 
security  that  allow  the  prevention  or  minimization  of  any  risks  related  to  the  unauthorised 
access to the working environment and loss of information.  

4.  Trading  venues  shall  promptly  inform  their  competent  authority  of  any  successful 
breaches  in  the  physical  and  electronic  security  measures  it  has  in  place  by  promptly 
providing  an  incident  report  indicating  the  nature  of  the  incident,  the  measures  adopted  to 
cope  with  the  emergency  situation  and  the  initiatives  taken  to  avoid  similar  incidents  from 
occurring in the future.  

 

Article 24 

Entry into force 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union.  

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

EN 

 

271 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

 

272 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Annex:  Parameters  to  be  considered  in  the  trading  venues’  self-
assessment  

List of elements that have to be considered in a trading venue’s self-assessment:  

(a)  Nature, in terms of: 

(i)  types  and  regulatory  status  of  the  instruments  traded  on  the  venue  such  as 
whether  the  trading  venue  trades  liquid  instruments  subject  to  mandatory 
trading;  

(ii)  the  trading  venue’s  role  in  the  financial  system  such  as  whether  the  financial 

instruments traded on it can be traded elsewhere. 

(b)  Scale,  in  terms  of  the  potential  impact  of  the  trading  venue  on  the  fair  and  orderly 

functioning of the markets, taking as a reference at least the following elements: 

(i)  the number of algorithms operating on the venue;  

(ii)  the messaging volume capacities of the venue;  

(iii) the volume of trading executed on the venue;  

(iv) the percentage of algorithmic trading over the total trading activity and the total 

turnover traded on the venue; 

(v)  the  percentage  of  high  frequency  trading  (HFT)  activity  over  the  total  trading 

activity and the total amount traded on the venue; 

(vi) the number of its members and participants;  

(vii) the  number  of  its  members  providing  DEA  including,  where  applicable,  the 
specific  number  of  its  members  providing  for  sponsored  access  and  the 
conditions under which DEA is offered or can be delegated;  

(viii) the  ratio  of  unexecuted  orders  to  transactions  as  observed  and  determined 

pursuant to [draft RTS 9 on OTR];  

(ix) the number and percentage of remote members; 

(x)  the number of co-location or proximity hosting sites provided; 

(xi) the  number  of  countries  and  regions  in  which  the  trading  venue  is  undertaking 

business activity.  

EN 

273 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(xii) The  operating  conditions  for  mechanisms  to  manage  volatility  and  whether 
dynamic  or  static  trading  limits  are  used  to  trigger  trading  halts  or  rejection  of 
orders). 

(c)  Complexity, in terms of:  

(i)  the classes of financial instruments traded on the trading venue; 

(ii)  the trading models available in the trading venue including the different trading 
models  operating  at  the  same  time  such  as  auction,  continuous  auction  and 
hybrid systems; 

(iii) the use of pre-trade transparency waivers in combination with the trading models 

operated; 

(iv) the  diversity  of  trading  systems  employed  by  the  venue  and  the  extent  of  the 
venue’s  control  over  setting,  adjusting,  testing,  and  reviewing  its  trading 
systems; 

(v)  the structure of the trading venue in terms of ownership and governance and its 

organisational, operational, technical, physical, and geographical set up; 

(vi) the diverse locations of the trading venue’s connectivity and technology;  

(vii) the diversity of the venue’s physical trading infrastructure;  

(viii) the  level  of  outsourcing  and  in  particular  where  key  functions  or  operational 

functions have been outsourced; and 

(ix) the  frequency  of  changes  in  terms  of  trading  models,  IT  systems  and 

membership. 

 

 

 

EN 

274 

EN 

 
 

 

 

 Draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  market  making 
