

RTS 8:
agreements and market making schemes 

 

 

  

  

 

 

 

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSION    

  

Brussels,  XXX     
[…] (2012)  XXX  draft   

    

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

  

of  XXX   

[…]   

 

  

 

EN 

275 

EN 

 
 

 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/.. 

of [date] 

supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the 

requirements on market making agreements and schemes 

(Text with EEA relevance) 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 
May  2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and  amending  Directive  2002/92/EC  and 
Directive  2011/61/EU1,  and  in  particular  Article  17(7)(a),  (b)  and  (c)  and  Article  48(12)(a) 
and (f) thereof,  

Whereas: 

(1)

 

(2)

 

(3)

 

Two  main  goals  should  be  attained  in  specifying  the  market  making  obligations  of 
algorithmic  traders  pursuing  market  making  strategies  and  the  related  obligations  of 
trading venues. First, an element of predictability to the apparent liquidity in the order 
book should be introduced by establishing contractual obligations for investment firms 
pursuing market making strategies. Second, the presence of those firms in the market 
should be incentivised, particularly during stressed market conditions. 

The  provisions  in  this  Regulation  are  closely  linked,  since  they  deal  with  a  set  of 
related  obligations  for  investment  firms  engaged  in  algorithmic  trading  pursuing 
market making strategies and for trading venues where those market making strategies 
may  take  place.  To  ensure  coherence  between  those  provisions,  which  should  enter 
into force at the same time, and to facilitate a comprehensive view and compact access 
to them by persons subject to those obligations, including investors that are non-Union 
residents, it is desirable to include these provisions in a single Regulation. 

The  provisions  of  this  Regulation  regarding  market  making  schemes  and  market 
making obligations should apply not only to regulated markets but also to multilateral 
trading  facilities  and  organised  trading  facilities  as  determined  by  Article  18(5)  of 
Directive 2014/65/EU. 

                                                 

1 OJ L 173, 12.06.2014, p. 349. 

EN 

276 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(4)

  Market making strategies may relate to one or more financial instruments and one or 
more  trading  venues.  However,  in  certain  cases,  it  may  not  be  possible  for  a  trading 
venue  to  monitor  strategies  involving  more  than  one  trading  venue  or  instrument.  In 
those  cases,  trading  venues  should  be  able,  in  accordance  with  the  nature,  scale  and 
complexity  of  their  business,  to  monitor  market  making  strategies  pursued  on  their 
own venue, and therefore should restrict corresponding market making agreements and 
schemes to those situations only. 

(5)

 

(6)

 

(7)

 

(8)

 

All members or participants engaged in algorithmic trading pursuing a market making 
strategy  on  a  trading  venue  which  allows  for  or  enables  algorithmic  trading  should 
enter  into  a  market  making  agreement  with  the  operator  of  the  trading  venue. 
However,  incentives  under  a  market  making  scheme  should  only  be  required  for 
certain  instruments  traded  under  a  continuous  auction  order  book  trading  system. 
Nothing should prevent trading venues from establishing any other type of incentives 
at their own initiative for other financial instruments or trading systems. 

Cases where there is no mandatory requirement for trading venues to set out a market 
making scheme taking into account the nature and scale of the trading on those trading 
venues  should  be  clarified.  To  this  end,  it  is  appropriate  to  identify  financial 
instruments and trading systems increasing the risk of high volatility and for which it 
is crucial to incentivise the provision of liquidity for orderly and efficient functioning 
of markets.  In this respect,  this Regulation  should take into account  that  when liquid 
shares,  liquid  exchange  traded  funds,  options  and  futures  directly  related  to  those 
financial  instruments  as  well  as  liquid  equity  index  futures  and  liquid  equity  index 
options  are  algorithmically  traded  in  continuous  auction  order  book  trading  systems 
there is a greater risk of overreaction to external events which can exacerbate market 
volatility.  

Trading venues for which it is considered appropriate to have market making schemes 
in  place should review their existing agreements with  respect  to  those instruments to 
ensure  that  their  terms  in  respect  of  algorithmic  traders  pursuing  a  market  making 
strategy comply with these regulatory technical standards. 

The market making scheme may incentivise investment firms having signed a market 
making  agreement  to  perform  their  obligations  under  normal  trading  conditions  but 
should  provide  incentives  for  firms  effectively  contributing  to  liquidity  provision 
under  stressed  market  conditions.  Therefore,  under  stressed  market  conditions,  there 
should  be  a  scheme  of  incentives  to  limit  the  effects  of  a  sudden  and  large-scale 
withdrawal of liquidity. In order to avoid divergent application of this provision, it is 
important  for  trading  venues  to  communicate  the  existence  of  such  stressed  market 
conditions to all parties to the market making scheme. 

(9)

  Members,  participants  or  clients  having  signed  a  market  making  agreement  have  to 
meet a minimum set of requirements in terms of presence, size and spread in all cases. 
However,  the  members,  participants  or  clients  meeting  those  minimum  requirements 

EN 

277 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(10)

 

only under normal trading conditions may not necessarily access any type of incentive. 
Trading  venues  may  establish  market  making  schemes  which  only  reward  members, 
participants or clients meeting more stringent parameters in terms of presence, size and 
spread.  The  market  making  schemes  put  in  place  by  trading  venues  should  clearly 
indicate  the  conditions  for  accessing  incentives  and  should  take  into  account  the 
effective  contribution  to  the  liquidity  in  the  trading  venue  measured  in  terms  of 
presence, size and spread by the participants to the schemes. 

In order to prevent divergent application of this Regulation and to ensure fair and non-
discriminatory  implementation  of  market  making  schemes,  it  is  crucial  that  all 
members,  participants  and  clients  of  a  trading  venue  are  informed  in  a  coordinated 
manner  when  exceptional  circumstances  occur  or  when  trading  resumes  after  the 
occurrence  of  such  circumstances.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  specify  the  role  to  be 
played  by 
the  communication  of  exceptional 
circumstances and coordination of their members, participants or clients thereof. 

trading  venues 

in  relation 

to 

(11)

  The  new  legislation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  markets  in 
financial  instruments  set  out  in  Directive  2014/65/EU  and  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council 2 applies  from  3  January 
2017. To ensure consistency and legal certainty, this Regulation should apply from the 
same date. 

(12)

  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission. 

(13)

  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established  by  Article  37  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council3, 

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

 

Article 1 

(Article 17(3) and (4) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

                                                 

2 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May  2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84) 
3  Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  November  2010 
establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision 
No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

EN 

278 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Circumstances in which an investment firm is obliged to enter into a market making 

agreement 

1. 
Investment  firms  shall  enter  into  a  market  making  agreement  regarding  the  financial 
instrument  or  instruments  in  which  they  pursue  a  market  making  strategy  with  the  trading 
venue or venues where this strategy takes place in the circumstances set out in paragraph 2. 

2. 
Investment  firms  shall  be  obliged  to  enter  into  a  market  making  agreement  where  in 
execution  of  one  market  making  strategy  they  post  firm,  simultaneous  two-way  quotes  of 
comparable  size  and  competitive  prices  when  dealing  on  their  own  account  in  at  least  one 
financial  instrument  on  one  trading  venue  for  at  least  50%  of  the  daily  trading  hours  of 
continuous  trading  at  the  respective  trading  venue,  excluding  opening  and  closing  auctions, 
for half of the trading days over a one month period.  

3.  For the purposes of paragraph 2: 

(a)  a firm quote shall include any orders and quotes that can be matched against an opposite 

order or quote under the rules of a trading venue; 

(b)  quotes  shall  be  deemed  simultaneous  two-way  quotes  if  they  are  posted  in  a  way  that 

both sides are present in the order book at the same time; 

(c)  two quotes shall be deemed of comparable size when their sizes do not diverge by more 

than 50% from each other; 

(d)  quotes shall be deemed to have competitive prices where they are posted at or within the 
maximum  bid-ask  range  set  by  the  trading  venue  and  imposed  upon  every  investment 
firm signing a market making agreement. 

 

Article 2 

(Article 17(3) and (4) and Article 48 (2) and (3) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Content of market making agreements  

1.  The  content  of  a  binding  written  agreement  referred  to  in  Article  17(3)(b)  and  Article 
48(2) of Directive 2014/65/EU shall include at least: 

(a)  the financial instrument or instruments covered by the agreement;  

(b)  the  minimum  obligations  to  be  met  in  terms  of  presence,  size  and  spread  that  shall 
require  at  least  posting  firm,  simultaneous  two-way  quotes  of  comparable  size  and 
competitive prices in no less than one financial instrument on the trading venue for no 
less  than  50%  of  the  hours  during  which  continuous  trading  takes  place  during  daily 
trading  hours  excluding  opening  and  closing  auctions,  and  calculated  for  each  trading 
day; 

EN 

279 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(c)  where appropriate, the terms of the applicable market making scheme;  

(d)  obligations in relation to resumption of trading after volatility interruptions; 

(e)  the  surveillance,  compliance  and  audit  obligations  (including  in  terms  of resources)  to 

be complied with in order to enable the firm to monitor its market making activity; 

(f)  the obligation to flag firm quotes submitted to the trading venue in the performance of 

the market making agreement in order to distinguish them from other order flows;  

(g)  the obligation to maintain records of firm quotes and transactions relating to the market 
making activities so that these records can be distinguished from other trading activities 
and be made available to the trading venue and the competent authority upon request.  

2.  Trading  venues  shall  monitor  on  an  ongoing  basis  the  effective  compliance  of  the 
relevant investment firms with the market making agreements. 

 

Article 3 

(Article 17(3) and (4) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Exceptional circumstances  

1.  The  obligation  to  provide  liquidity  on  a  regular  and  predictable  basis  does  not  apply  in 
any of the following exceptional circumstances:  

(a)  in  a  situation  of  extreme  volatility  resulting  in  the  triggering  of  volatility  mechanisms 
with  respect  to  the  majority  of  instruments  or  underlyings  of  instruments  traded  on  a 
trading segment within that venue; 

(b)  an act of war, industrial action, civil unrest or an act of cyber sabotage; 

(c)  under  disorderly  trading  conditions  where  the  maintenance  of  fair,  orderly  and 

transparent execution of trades is compromised as evidenced by any of the following: 

(i)  the  performance  of  the  trading  venue’s  system  being  significantly  affected  by 

delays and interruptions;  

(ii)  multiple erroneous orders or transactions;  

(iii) the capacity of a trading venue becoming insufficient; 

(d)  where  the  investment  firm’s  ability  to  maintain  prudent  risk  management  practices  is 

prevented by any of the following: 

(i)  technological issues including problems with a data feed or other system that is 

essential in order to carry out a market making strategy;  

EN 

280 

EN 

 
 

 

 

(ii)  risk  management  issues  in  relation  to  regulatory  capital,  margining,  access  to 

clearing, or the inability to hedge a position due to a short selling ban;  

(e)  for  non-equity  instruments,  the  period  in  which  a  competent  authority  temporarily 
suspends  the  pre-trade  transparency  requirements  following  a  significant  decline  in 
liquidity of a particular class of financial instruments in accordance with Article 9(4) of 
Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council4. 

2.  The exceptional circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 shall not include any regular or 
pre-planned information events that may affect the fair value of a financial instrument due to 
changes in the perception of market risk, whether occurring during or outside trading hours. 

 

Article 4 

(Article 48(2) and (3) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Identification of exceptional circumstances 

1.  Trading  venues  shall  make  public  the  existence  of  an  exceptional  circumstance  and  the 
resumption of normal trading when this exceptional circumstance ends as soon as technically 
possible, except in the circumstances set out in point (d) of Article 3(1).  

2.  Trading  venues  shall  set  out  clear  procedures  to  resume  normal  trading  when  the 
exceptional circumstance has ended, including the timing of such resumption, and shall make 
those procedures publicly available.  

3.  Trading  venues  shall  only  extend  the  declaration  of  exceptional  events  beyond  market 
close where necessary under points (b), (c) and (e) of Article 3(1). 

 

Article 5 

(Article 48(2) and (3) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Conditions under which the requirement to have in place a market making scheme is 

not appropriate 

1.  Trading venues shall not be required to have market making schemes in place except for 
any  of  the  following  classes  of  financial  instruments  traded  through  a  continuous  auction 
order book trading system:  

(a)  liquid  shares  and  liquid  exchange  traded  funds  as  defined  in  accordance  with  Article 
2(1)(17)  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  600/2014  and  as  specified  in  Commission  Delegated 

                                                 

4 Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets  in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 84). 

EN 

281 

EN 

 
 

 

 

Regulations [Regulation on the specification of liquid market for equity and equity-like 
instruments]; 

(b)  options and futures directly related to the financial instruments set out in point (a);  

(c)  liquid equity index futures and liquid equity index options as defined in accordance with 
point (c) of Article 9(1) and point (c) of Article 11(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 
and  as  specified  in  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  [Regulation  on  transparency 
requirements in respect of bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and 
derivatives]. 

2.  For  the  purpose  of  paragraph  1,  a  continuous  auction  order  book  trading  system  is  a 
system  that  by  means  of  an  order  book  and  a  trading  algorithm  operated  without  human 
intervention matches sell orders with buy orders on the basis of the best available price on a 
continuous basis.  

 

Article 6 

(Article 48(2) and (3) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Minimum market making obligations that trading venues must provide for when 

designing a market making scheme  

1.  Trading  venues  shall  describe  in  their  market  making  scheme  the  incentives  and  the 
parameters that must be met in terms of presence, size and spread to access those incentives 
under: 

(a)  normal  trading  conditions  where  the  trading  venue  decides  to  offer  incentives  in  such 
circumstances.  In  that  case,  the  market  making  scheme  may  include  a  condition  that 
only the best performer or performers receive those incentives; 

(b)  stressed market conditions taking into account the additional risks implied under those 

circumstances.  

2.  Trading  venues  shall  set  out  the  parameters  to  identify  stressed  market  conditions  in 
terms  of  significant  short-term  changes  of  price  and  volume.  Trading  venues  shall  consider 
the resumption of trading after volatility interruptions as stressed market conditions. 

 

Article 7 

(Article 48(2) and (3) of Directive 2014/65/EU) 

Fair and non-discriminatory market making schemes 

1.  Trading venues shall publish on their websites the terms of the market making schemes, 
the  names  of  the  firms  that  have  signed  market  making  agreements  under  each  of  those 
schemes and the financial instruments covered by those agreements.  

EN 

282 

EN 

 
 

 

 

2.  Trading  venues  shall  communicate  any  changes  to  the  terms  of  the  market  making 
schemes to the participants in those schemes at least one month prior to their application. 

3.  Trading  venues  shall  provide  in  a  market  making  scheme  the  same  incentives  to  the 
participants who perform equally in terms of presence, size and spread. 

4.  Trading venues shall not limit the number of participants in a market making scheme but 
may  limit  the  access  to  the  incentives  included  in  this  scheme  to  the  firms  which  have  met 
pre-determined thresholds.  

5.  Trading  venues  shall  monitor  on  an  ongoing  basis  the  effective  compliance  of  the 
participants with the market making schemes. 

6.  Trading  venues  shall  establish  procedures  to  communicate  to  all  participants  in  market 
making  schemes  the  existence  of  stressed  market  conditions  on  its  venue  through  readily 
accessible channels. 

 

Article 8 

Entry into force and application 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 3 January 2017. 

 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels,  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 

[For the Commission 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

EN 

283 

EN 
